tools/s1kd-appcheck/README.md, before:

# NAME

s1kd-appcheck - Validate applicability of S1000D CSDB objects

# SYNOPSIS

    s1kd-appcheck [options] [<object>...]

# DESCRIPTION

The *s1kd-appcheck* tool validates the applicability of S1000D CSDB
objects, detecting potential errors that could occur when the object is
filtered.

By default, the tool validates an object against only the product
attribute and condition values which are explicitly used within the
object. The products check (-t) and full check (-a) modes allow objects
to be checked for issues with implicit applicability, that is, product
attribute or condition values which are not explicitly used within an
object, but may still affect it.

The s1kd-instance and s1kd-validate tools are used by default to perform
the actual validation.

# OPTIONS

  - \-A, --act \<file\>  
    Specify the ACT to read product attributes from, and to use to find
    the CCT or PCT. This will override the ACT reference within the
    individual objects being validated.

  - \-a, --all  
    Validate objects against all possible combinations of relevant
    product attribute and condition values as defined in the ACT and
    CCT. Relevant product attributes and conditions are those that are
    used by an object with any value.

  - \-b, --brexcheck  
    Validate objects with a BREX check (using the s1kd-brexcheck tool)
    in addition to the schema check.

  - \-C, --cct \<file\>  
    Specify the CCT to read conditions from. This will override the CCT
    reference within the ACT.

  - \-c, --custom  
    Perform a customized check. The default standalone applicability
    check is disabled. This can then be combined with the -s option, to
    only check that all product attributes and conditions are defined in
    the ACT and CCT respectively, and/or the -n option, to only check
    nested applicability annotations. If neither of these options are
    specified, no checks will be performed.

  - \-D, --duplicate  
    Check for duplicate annotations.

  - \-d, --dir \<dir\>  
    The directory to start searching for ACT/CCT/PCT data modules in. By
    default, the current directory is used.

  - \-e, --exec \<cmd\>  
    The commands used to validate objects. Multiple commands can be used
    by specifying this option multiple times. The objects will be passed
    to each command on stdin, and the exit status of the command will be
    used to determine if the object is valid (with a non-zero exit
    status indicating it is invalid). This overrides the default
    commands (s1kd-validate, and s1kd-brexcheck if -b is specified).

  - \-F, --valid-filenames  
    Print the filenames of valid objects.

  - \-f, --filenames  
    Print the filenames of invalid objects.

  - \-h, -?, --help  
    Show help/usage message.

  - \-i, --ignore \<id:type\>  
    Ignore a specified applicability property when validating.

  - \-K, --filter \<cmd\>  
    The command used to filter objects prior to validation. The objects
    will be passed to the command on stdin, and the filters will be
    supplied as arguments in the form of "`-s <ident>:<type>=<value>`".
    This overrides the default command (s1kd-instance).

  - \-k, --args \<args\>  
    The arguments to the filter command when filtering objects prior to
    validation.

  - \-l, --list  
    Treat input as a list of CSDB objects to validate.

  - \-N, --omit-issue  
    Assume that the issue/inwork numbers are omitted from object
    filenames (they were created with the -N option).

  - \-n, --nested  
    Check that all product attribute and condition values used in nested
    applicability annotations are subsets of the values used in their
    parents.

  - \-o, --output-valid  
    Output valid CSDB objects to stdout.

  - \-P, --pct \<file\>  
    Specify the PCT to read product instances from. This will override
    the PCT reference in the ACT.

  - \-p, --progress  
    Display a progress bar.

  - \-q, --quiet  
    Quiet mode. Error messages will not be printed.

  - \-R, --redundant  
    Check for redundant annotations.

  - \-r, --recursive  
    Search for the ACT/CCT/PCT recursively.

  - \-s, --strict  
    Check whether product attributes and conditions used by an object
    are declared in the ACT and CCT respectively.

  - \-T, --summary  
    Print a summary of the check after it completes, including
    statistics on the number of objects that passed/failed the check.

  - \-t, --products  
    Validate objects against the defined product instances within the
    PCT.

  - \-u, --unstrict-nested  
    Perform a nested applicability check (refer to the -n, --nested
    option above) in "unstrict" mode. The normal, strict nested check
    always checks that each individual assert is a subset of its parent
    applicability, but in this mode errors will only be reported if the
    applicability annotation as a whole is not a subset of its parent.

  - \-v, --verbose  
    Verbose output. Specify multiple times to increase the verbosity.

  - \-x, --xml  
    Print an XML report of the check.

  - \-\~, --dependencies  
    Check with CCT dependency tests added to assertions which use the
    dependant values.

  - \-\#, --threads \<x\[,y\]\>  
    Specifies the number of parallel threads to use for object
    validation. `x` represents the number of threads used to iterate
    over the list of objects. `y` represents the number of threads used
    to check each individual object. If both are specified, this means
    that in total `x * y` threads will be created. When either is
    unspecified, the default value is 1.
    
    The numbers chosen typically will depend on the number of CPU cores
    available, how many objects are being validated, and the complexity
    of the applicability in the objects. Generally, the total number of
    threads (`x * y`) should not exceed the number of available cores.
    If you are validating a large number of objects with relatively
    little applicability, then `x` should be greater than `y`. On the
    other hand, if you are validating a small number of objects with
    complex applicability, then `y` should be greater than `x`. When
    validating a single object, `x` should always be 1.
    
    Benchmarks should be performed to find the combination that is the
    best for your hardware and data.

  - \-^, --remove-deleted  
    Validate objects with elements that have a change type of "delete"
    removed.

  - \--version  
    Show version information.

  - \--zenity-progress  
    Print progress information in the zenity --progress format.

  - \<object\>...  
    Object(s) to validate.

In addition, the following options allow configuration of the XML
parser:

  - \--dtdload  
    Load the external DTD.

  - \--huge  
    Remove any internal arbitrary parser limits.

  - \--net  
    Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

  - \--noent  
    Resolve entities.

  - \--parser-errors  
    Emit errors from parser.

  - \--parser-warnings  
    Emit warnings from parser.

  - \--xinclude  
    Do XInclude processing.

  - \--xml-catalog \<file\>  
    Use an XML catalog when resolving entities. Multiple catalogs may be
    loaded by specifying this option multiple times.

# EXIT STATUS

  - 0  
    The check completed successfully, and all CSDB objects were valid.

  - 1  
    The check completed successfully, but some CSDB objects were
    invalid.

  - 2  
    One or more CSDB objects could not be read.

  - 3  
    The number of CSDB objects specified exceeded the available memory.

  - 4  
    The commands used to filter and/or validate objects failed to be
    executed.

# EXAMPLES

## Standalone validation

Consider the following data module snippet:

    <dmodule>
    ...
    <applic>
    <displayText>
    <simplePara>Version: A or Version: B</simplePara>
    </displayText>
    <evaluate andOr="or">
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="A"/>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="B"/>
    </evaluate>
    </applic>
    ...
    <referencedApplicGroup>
    <applic id="app-VersionB">
    <assert applicPropertyIdent="version" applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="B"/>
    </applic>
    </referencedApplicGroup>
    ...
    <levelledPara id="par-0001" applicRefId="app-VersionB">
    <title>Features of version B</title>
    <para>...</para>
    </levelledPara>
    ...
    <levelledPara>
    <title>More information</title>
    <para>...</para>
    <para>Refer to <internalRef internalRefId="par-0001"/>.</para>
    </levelledPara>
    ...
    </dmodule>

There are two versions of the product, A and B, and the data module is
meant to apply to both.

By itself, the data module is valid:

    $ s1kd-validate -v <DM>
    s1kd-validate: SUCCESS: <DM> validates against schema <url>

Checking it with this tool, however, reveals an issue:

    $ s1kd-appcheck <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR: <DM> is invalid when:
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR:   prodattr version = A

When the data module is filtered for version A, the first levelled
paragraph will be removed, which causes the reference to it in the
second levelled paragraph to become broken.

## Full validation

Consider the following data module snippet:

    <dmodule>
    ...
    <applic>
    <displayText>
    <simplePara>All</simplePara>
    </displayText>
    </applic>
    ...
    <referencedApplicGroup>
    <applic id="app-IcyOrHot">
    <evaluate andOr="or">
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="weather"
    applicPropertyType="condition"
    applicPropertyValues="Icy"/>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="weather"
    applicPropertyType="condition"
    applicPropertyValues="Hot"/>
    </applic>
    </referencedApplicGroup>
    ...
    <proceduralStep>
    <para>Locate the handle.</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    <proceduralStep id="stp-0001" applicRefId="app-IcyOrHot">
    <para>Put on gloves prior to touching the handle.</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    <proceduralStep>
    <para>Grab the handle and turn it clockwise.</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    ...
    <proceduralStep>
    <para>Remove the gloves you put on in <internalRef internalRefId="stp-0001"/>.</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    ...
    </dmodule>

Once again, this data module is valid by itself:

    $ s1kd-validate -v <DM>
    s1kd-validate: SUCCESS: <DM> validates against schema <url>

This time, however, it also initially appears valid when this tool is
used:

    $ s1kd-appcheck -v <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: SUCCESS: <DM> passed the applicability check.

However, now consider this snippet from the CCT:

    <condCrossRefTable>
    ...
    <condType id="weatherType">
    <name>Weather type</name>
    <descr>Possible types of weather conditions.</descr>
    <enumeration applicPropertyValues="Normal"/>
    <enumeration applicPropertyValues="Icy"/>
    <enumeration applicPropertyValues="Hot"/>
    </condType>
    ...
    <cond id="weather" condTypeRefId="weatherType">
    <name>Weather</name>
    <descr>The current weather conditions.</descr>
    </cond>
    ...
    </condCrossRefTable>

There is a third value for the `weather` condition which is not
explicitly used within the data module, and therefore will not be
validated against in the default standalone check. When `weather` has a
value of `Normal`, the cross-reference in the last step in the example
above becomes broken.

To catch errors with implicit applicability, the full check (-a) can be
used instead, which reads the values to check not from the data module
itself, but from the ACT and CCT referenced by the data module:

    $ s1kd-appcheck -a <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR: <DM> is invalid when:
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR:   condition weather = Normal

This can also be fixed by making the applicability of the data module
explicit:

    <applic>
    <displayText>
    <simplePara>Weather: Normal or Weather: Icy or
    Weather: Hot</simplePara>
    </displayText>
    <evaluate andOr="or">
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="weather"
    applicPropertyType="condition"
    applicPropertyValues="Normal"/>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="weather"
    applicPropertyType="condition"
    applicPropertyValues="Icy"/>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="weather"
    applicPropertyType="condition"
    applicPropertyValues="Hot"/>
    </evaluate>
    </applic>

In which case, the standalone check will now also detect the error:

    $ s1kd-appcheck <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR: <DM> is invalid when:
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR:   condition weather = Normal

## Nested applicability annotations

Consider the following data module snippet:

    <dmodule>
    ...
    <applic>
    <displayText>
    <simplePara>Version: A, B</simplePara>
    </displayText>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="A"/>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="B"/>
    </applic>
    ...
    <referencedApplicGroup>
    <applic id="app-C">
    <displayText>
    <simplePara>Version: C</simplePara>
    </displayText>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="C"/>
    </applic>
    </referencedApplicGroup>
    ...
    <proceduralStep>
    <para>Step A</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    <proceduralStep applicRefId="app-C">
    <para>Step B</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    <proceduralStep>
    <para>Step C</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    ...
    </dmodule>

Here, the whole data module is applicable to versions A and B, but an
individual step has been made applicable to version C. Normally, this is
not reported as an error, since the removal of this step would not cause
the data module to become invalid:

    $ s1kd-appcheck -v <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: SUCCESS: <DM> passed the applicability check

However, the content is essentially useless, since it will never appear.
The -n option will report when the applicability of an element is
incompatible with the applicability of any parent elements or the whole
object:

    $ s1kd-appcheck -n <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR: <DM>: proceduralStep on line 62 is applicable
    when prodattr version = C, which is not a subset of the applicability
    of the whole object.

The -u (--unstrict-nested) option performs the nested check in
"unstrict" mode. How this differs from the normal, strict nested check
can be illustrated as follows:

    <referencedApplicGroup>
    <applic id="app-A">
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="A"/>
    </applic>
    <applic id="app-B">
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="B"/>
    </applic>
    <applic id="app-A-or-B">
    <evaluate andOr="or">
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="A"/>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="B"/>
    </applic>
    </referencedApplicGroup>
    ...
    <proceduralStep applicRefId="app-A">
    <para>Step 1</para>
    <proceduralStep applicRefId="app-A-or-B">
    <para>Step 1.1</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    <proceduralStep applicRefId="app-B">
    <para>Step 1.2</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    </proceduralStep>

When performing a normal, strict nested check, both steps 1.1 and 1.2
will be reported as having nested applicability errors, because they are
inside a step that is applicable only to Version A yet each contain an
assertion for Version B. However, in unstrict mode, only Step 1.2 will
be reported as an error, because the applicability of Step 1.1 is "A
*or* B" and so is technically still valid (even though the inclusion of
B can be considered pointless).

## Redundant applicability annotations

Consider the following data module snippet:

    <proceduralStep applicRefId="app-A">
    <para>Step A</para>
    <figure applicRefId="app-A">
    ...
    </figure>
    </proceduralStep>

This is technically correct, but the annotation on the figure can be
considered redundant, since it has the same applicability as its
ancestor, and the applicability of an element is already inherited by
all its descendants automatically.

The -R (--redundant) option will report when the applicability of a
nested element is redundant:

    $ s1kd-appcheck -R <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR: <DM>: figure on line 85 has the same
    applicability as its parent proceduralStep on line 83 (app-A)

> **Note**
> 
> Currently, this check only detects when the exact same annotation
> (with the same ID) is nested within itself. In the future, this should
> also detect redundant logic between different nested annotations.

## Duplicate applicability annotations

Consider the following data module snippet:

    <referencedApplicGroup>
    <applic id="app-0001">
    <assert applicPropertyIdent="version" applicPropertyType="prodattr" applicPropertyValues="A"/>
    </applic>
    <applic id="app-0002">
    <assert applicPropertyIdent="version" applicPropertyType="prodattr" applicPropertyValues="A"/>
    </referencedApplicGroup>

These annotations have duplicate logic, meaning only one is necessary.
The -D (--duplicate) option will report when an applicability annotation
is a duplicate of another annotation:

    $ s1kd-appcheck -D <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR: <DM>: Annotation on line 47 is a duplicate of annotation on line 24.

Commit message:

s1kd-appcheck: Add -X (--xml-with-errors) option
Added a new XML report option, -X, which will include details of errors
from the validation tools (such as s1kd-validate and s1kd-brexcheck),
rather than just a pass/fail for each set of asserts.

tools/s1kd-appcheck/README.md, after:

# NAME

s1kd-appcheck - Validate applicability of S1000D CSDB objects

# SYNOPSIS

    s1kd-appcheck [options] [<object>...]

# DESCRIPTION

The *s1kd-appcheck* tool validates the applicability of S1000D CSDB
objects, detecting potential errors that could occur when the object is
filtered.

By default, the tool validates an object against only the product
attribute and condition values which are explicitly used within the
object. The products check (-t) and full check (-a) modes allow objects
to be checked for issues with implicit applicability, that is, product
attribute or condition values which are not explicitly used within an
object, but may still affect it.

The s1kd-instance and s1kd-validate tools are used by default to perform
the actual validation.

# OPTIONS

  - \-A, --act \<file\>  
    Specify the ACT to read product attributes from, and to use to find
    the CCT or PCT. This will override the ACT reference within the
    individual objects being validated.

  - \-a, --all  
    Validate objects against all possible combinations of relevant
    product attribute and condition values as defined in the ACT and
    CCT. Relevant product attributes and conditions are those that are
    used by an object with any value.

  - \-b, --brexcheck  
    Validate objects with a BREX check (using the s1kd-brexcheck tool)
    in addition to the schema check.

  - \-C, --cct \<file\>  
    Specify the CCT to read conditions from. This will override the CCT
    reference within the ACT.

  - \-c, --custom  
    Perform a customized check. The default standalone applicability
    check is disabled. This can then be combined with the -s option, to
    only check that all product attributes and conditions are defined in
    the ACT and CCT respectively, and/or the -n option, to only check
    nested applicability annotations. If neither of these options are
    specified, no checks will be performed.

  - \-D, --duplicate  
    Check for duplicate annotations.

  - \-d, --dir \<dir\>  
    The directory to start searching for ACT/CCT/PCT data modules in. By
    default, the current directory is used.

  - \-e, --exec \<cmd\>  
    The commands used to validate objects. Multiple commands can be used
    by specifying this option multiple times. The objects will be passed
    to each command on stdin, and the exit status of the command will be
    used to determine if the object is valid (with a non-zero exit
    status indicating it is invalid). This overrides the default
    commands (s1kd-validate, and s1kd-brexcheck if -b is specified).
    
    When the -X (--xml-with-errors) option is used, if these commands
    output an XML document with any elements named `error`, those
    elements will be copied into the XML report output by this tool.

  - \-F, --valid-filenames  
    Print the filenames of valid objects.

  - \-f, --filenames  
    Print the filenames of invalid objects.

  - \-h, -?, --help  
    Show help/usage message.

  - \-i, --ignore \<id:type\>  
    Ignore a specified applicability property when validating.

  - \-K, --filter \<cmd\>  
    The command used to filter objects prior to validation. The objects
    will be passed to the command on stdin, and the filters will be
    supplied as arguments in the form of "`-s <ident>:<type>=<value>`".
    This overrides the default command (s1kd-instance).

  - \-k, --args \<args\>  
    The arguments to the filter command when filtering objects prior to
    validation.

  - \-l, --list  
    Treat input as a list of CSDB objects to validate.

  - \-N, --omit-issue  
    Assume that the issue/inwork numbers are omitted from object
    filenames (they were created with the -N option).

  - \-n, --nested  
    Check that all product attribute and condition values used in nested
    applicability annotations are subsets of the values used in their
    parents.

  - \-o, --output-valid  
    Output valid CSDB objects to stdout.

  - \-P, --pct \<file\>  
    Specify the PCT to read product instances from. This will override
    the PCT reference in the ACT.

  - \-p, --progress  
    Display a progress bar.

  - \-q, --quiet  
    Quiet mode. Error messages will not be printed.

  - \-R, --redundant  
    Check for redundant annotations.

  - \-r, --recursive  
    Search for the ACT/CCT/PCT recursively.

  - \-s, --strict  
    Check whether product attributes and conditions used by an object
    are declared in the ACT and CCT respectively.

  - \-T, --summary  
    Print a summary of the check after it completes, including
    statistics on the number of objects that passed/failed the check.

  - \-t, --products  
    Validate objects against the defined product instances within the
    PCT.

  - \-u, --unstrict-nested  
    Perform a nested applicability check (refer to the -n, --nested
    option above) in "unstrict" mode. The normal, strict nested check
    always checks that each individual assert is a subset of its parent
    applicability, but in this mode errors will only be reported if the
    applicability annotation as a whole is not a subset of its parent.

  - \-v, --verbose  
    Verbose output. Specify multiple times to increase the verbosity.

  - \-X, --xml-with-errors  
    Output an XML report of the check, including full details of errors
    produced by the validation tools (such as s1kd-validate and
    s1kd-brexcheck) for each set of assertions tested.

  - \-x, --xml  
    Output a simplified XML report of the check, only including whether
    sets of assertions passed or failed.

  - \-\~, --dependencies  
    Check with CCT dependency tests added to assertions which use the
    dependant values.

  - \-\#, --threads \<x\[,y\]\>  
    Specifies the number of parallel threads to use for object
    validation. `x` represents the number of threads used to iterate
    over the list of objects. `y` represents the number of threads used
    to check each individual object. If both are specified, this means
    that in total `x * y` threads will be created. When either is
    unspecified, the default value is 1.
    
    The numbers chosen typically will depend on the number of CPU cores
    available, how many objects are being validated, and the complexity
    of the applicability in the objects. Generally, the total number of
    threads (`x * y`) should not exceed the number of available cores.
    If you are validating a large number of objects with relatively
    little applicability, then `x` should be greater than `y`. On the
    other hand, if you are validating a small number of objects with
    complex applicability, then `y` should be greater than `x`. When
    validating a single object, `x` should always be 1.
    
    Benchmarks should be performed to find the combination that is the
    best for your hardware and data.

  - \-^, --remove-deleted  
    Validate objects with elements that have a change type of "delete"
    removed.

  - \--version  
    Show version information.

  - \--zenity-progress  
    Print progress information in the zenity --progress format.

  - \<object\>...  
    Object(s) to validate.

In addition, the following options allow configuration of the XML
parser:

  - \--dtdload  
    Load the external DTD.

  - \--huge  
    Remove any internal arbitrary parser limits.

  - \--net  
    Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

  - \--noent  
    Resolve entities.

  - \--parser-errors  
    Emit errors from parser.

  - \--parser-warnings  
    Emit warnings from parser.

  - \--xinclude  
    Do XInclude processing.

  - \--xml-catalog \<file\>  
    Use an XML catalog when resolving entities. Multiple catalogs may be
    loaded by specifying this option multiple times.

# EXIT STATUS

  - 0  
    The check completed successfully, and all CSDB objects were valid.

  - 1  
    The check completed successfully, but some CSDB objects were
    invalid.

  - 2  
    One or more CSDB objects could not be read.

  - 3  
    The number of CSDB objects specified exceeded the available memory.

  - 4  
    The commands used to filter and/or validate objects failed to be
    executed.

# EXAMPLES

## Standalone validation

Consider the following data module snippet:

    <dmodule>
    ...
    <applic>
    <displayText>
    <simplePara>Version: A or Version: B</simplePara>
    </displayText>
    <evaluate andOr="or">
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="A"/>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="B"/>
    </evaluate>
    </applic>
    ...
    <referencedApplicGroup>
    <applic id="app-VersionB">
    <assert applicPropertyIdent="version" applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="B"/>
    </applic>
    </referencedApplicGroup>
    ...
    <levelledPara id="par-0001" applicRefId="app-VersionB">
    <title>Features of version B</title>
    <para>...</para>
    </levelledPara>
    ...
    <levelledPara>
    <title>More information</title>
    <para>...</para>
    <para>Refer to <internalRef internalRefId="par-0001"/>.</para>
    </levelledPara>
    ...
    </dmodule>

There are two versions of the product, A and B, and the data module is
meant to apply to both.

By itself, the data module is valid:

    $ s1kd-validate -v <DM>
    s1kd-validate: SUCCESS: <DM> validates against schema <url>

Checking it with this tool, however, reveals an issue:

    $ s1kd-appcheck <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR: <DM> is invalid when:
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR:   prodattr version = A

When the data module is filtered for version A, the first levelled
paragraph will be removed, which causes the reference to it in the
second levelled paragraph to become broken.

## Full validation

Consider the following data module snippet:

    <dmodule>
    ...
    <applic>
    <displayText>
    <simplePara>All</simplePara>
    </displayText>
    </applic>
    ...
    <referencedApplicGroup>
    <applic id="app-IcyOrHot">
    <evaluate andOr="or">
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="weather"
    applicPropertyType="condition"
    applicPropertyValues="Icy"/>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="weather"
    applicPropertyType="condition"
    applicPropertyValues="Hot"/>
    </applic>
    </referencedApplicGroup>
    ...
    <proceduralStep>
    <para>Locate the handle.</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    <proceduralStep id="stp-0001" applicRefId="app-IcyOrHot">
    <para>Put on gloves prior to touching the handle.</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    <proceduralStep>
    <para>Grab the handle and turn it clockwise.</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    ...
    <proceduralStep>
    <para>Remove the gloves you put on in <internalRef internalRefId="stp-0001"/>.</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    ...
    </dmodule>

Once again, this data module is valid by itself:

    $ s1kd-validate -v <DM>
    s1kd-validate: SUCCESS: <DM> validates against schema <url>

This time, however, it also initially appears valid when this tool is
used:

    $ s1kd-appcheck -v <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: SUCCESS: <DM> passed the applicability check.

However, now consider this snippet from the CCT:

    <condCrossRefTable>
    ...
    <condType id="weatherType">
    <name>Weather type</name>
    <descr>Possible types of weather conditions.</descr>
    <enumeration applicPropertyValues="Normal"/>
    <enumeration applicPropertyValues="Icy"/>
    <enumeration applicPropertyValues="Hot"/>
    </condType>
    ...
    <cond id="weather" condTypeRefId="weatherType">
    <name>Weather</name>
    <descr>The current weather conditions.</descr>
    </cond>
    ...
    </condCrossRefTable>

There is a third value for the `weather` condition which is not
explicitly used within the data module, and therefore will not be
validated against in the default standalone check. When `weather` has a
value of `Normal`, the cross-reference in the last step in the example
above becomes broken.

To catch errors with implicit applicability, the full check (-a) can be
used instead, which reads the values to check not from the data module
itself, but from the ACT and CCT referenced by the data module:

    $ s1kd-appcheck -a <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR: <DM> is invalid when:
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR:   condition weather = Normal

This can also be fixed by making the applicability of the data module
explicit:

    <applic>
    <displayText>
    <simplePara>Weather: Normal or Weather: Icy or
    Weather: Hot</simplePara>
    </displayText>
    <evaluate andOr="or">
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="weather"
    applicPropertyType="condition"
    applicPropertyValues="Normal"/>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="weather"
    applicPropertyType="condition"
    applicPropertyValues="Icy"/>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="weather"
    applicPropertyType="condition"
    applicPropertyValues="Hot"/>
    </evaluate>
    </applic>

In which case, the standalone check will now also detect the error:

    $ s1kd-appcheck <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR: <DM> is invalid when:
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR:   condition weather = Normal

## Nested applicability annotations

Consider the following data module snippet:

    <dmodule>
    ...
    <applic>
    <displayText>
    <simplePara>Version: A, B</simplePara>
    </displayText>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="A"/>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="B"/>
    </applic>
    ...
    <referencedApplicGroup>
    <applic id="app-C">
    <displayText>
    <simplePara>Version: C</simplePara>
    </displayText>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="C"/>
    </applic>
    </referencedApplicGroup>
    ...
    <proceduralStep>
    <para>Step A</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    <proceduralStep applicRefId="app-C">
    <para>Step B</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    <proceduralStep>
    <para>Step C</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    ...
    </dmodule>

Here, the whole data module is applicable to versions A and B, but an
individual step has been made applicable to version C. Normally, this is
not reported as an error, since the removal of this step would not cause
the data module to become invalid:

    $ s1kd-appcheck -v <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: SUCCESS: <DM> passed the applicability check

However, the content is essentially useless, since it will never appear.
The -n option will report when the applicability of an element is
incompatible with the applicability of any parent elements or the whole
object:

    $ s1kd-appcheck -n <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR: <DM>: proceduralStep on line 62 is applicable
    when prodattr version = C, which is not a subset of the applicability
    of the whole object.

The -u (--unstrict-nested) option performs the nested check in
"unstrict" mode. How this differs from the normal, strict nested check
can be illustrated as follows:

    <referencedApplicGroup>
    <applic id="app-A">
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="A"/>
    </applic>
    <applic id="app-B">
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="B"/>
    </applic>
    <applic id="app-A-or-B">
    <evaluate andOr="or">
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="A"/>
    <assert
    applicPropertyIdent="version"
    applicPropertyType="prodattr"
    applicPropertyValues="B"/>
    </applic>
    </referencedApplicGroup>
    ...
    <proceduralStep applicRefId="app-A">
    <para>Step 1</para>
    <proceduralStep applicRefId="app-A-or-B">
    <para>Step 1.1</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    <proceduralStep applicRefId="app-B">
    <para>Step 1.2</para>
    </proceduralStep>
    </proceduralStep>

When performing a normal, strict nested check, both steps 1.1 and 1.2
will be reported as having nested applicability errors, because they are
inside a step that is applicable only to Version A yet each contain an
assertion for Version B. However, in unstrict mode, only Step 1.2 will
be reported as an error, because the applicability of Step 1.1 is "A
*or* B" and so is technically still valid (even though the inclusion of
B can be considered pointless).

## Redundant applicability annotations

Consider the following data module snippet:

    <proceduralStep applicRefId="app-A">
    <para>Step A</para>
    <figure applicRefId="app-A">
    ...
    </figure>
    </proceduralStep>

This is technically correct, but the annotation on the figure can be
considered redundant, since it has the same applicability as its
ancestor, and the applicability of an element is already inherited by
all its descendants automatically.

The -R (--redundant) option will report when the applicability of a
nested element is redundant:

    $ s1kd-appcheck -R <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR: <DM>: figure on line 85 has the same
    applicability as its parent proceduralStep on line 83 (app-A)

> **Note**
> 
> Currently, this check only detects when the exact same annotation
> (with the same ID) is nested within itself. In the future, this should
> also detect redundant logic between different nested annotations.

## Duplicate applicability annotations

Consider the following data module snippet:

    <referencedApplicGroup>
    <applic id="app-0001">
    <assert applicPropertyIdent="version" applicPropertyType="prodattr" applicPropertyValues="A"/>
    </applic>
    <applic id="app-0002">
    <assert applicPropertyIdent="version" applicPropertyType="prodattr" applicPropertyValues="A"/>
    </referencedApplicGroup>

These annotations have duplicate logic, meaning only one is necessary.
The -D (--duplicate) option will report when an applicability annotation
is a duplicate of another annotation:

    $ s1kd-appcheck -D <DM>
    s1kd-appcheck: ERROR: <DM>: Annotation on line 47 is a duplicate of annotation on line 24.
