tools/s1kd-newpm/README.md, before:

NAME
====

s1kd-newpm - Create new S1000D publication module.

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-newpm [options] [<DM>...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-newpm* tool creates a new S1000D publication module with the
publication module code and other metadata specified.

OPTIONS
=======

-\# &lt;PMC&gt;  
The publication module code of the new publication module.

-$ &lt;issue&gt;  
Specify which issue of S1000D to use. Currently supported issues are:

-   4.2 (default)

-   4.1

-   4.0

-   3.0

-   2.3

-   2.2

-   2.1

-   2.0

-@ &lt;filename&gt;  
Save new publication module as &lt;filename&gt; instead of an
automatically named file in the current directory.

-% &lt;dir&gt;  
Use the XML template in &lt;dir&gt; instead of the built-in template.
The template must be named `pm.xml` in &lt;dir&gt; and must conform to
the default S1000D issue (4.2).

-\~ &lt;dir&gt;  
Dump the built-in XML template to the specified directory.

-b &lt;BREX&gt;  
BREX data module code.

-C &lt;country&gt;  
The country ISO code of the new publication module.

-c &lt;sec&gt;  
The security classification of the new publication module.

-D  
Include issue date in referenced data modules.

-d &lt;defaults&gt;  
Specify the `.defaults` file name.

-f  
Overwrite existing file.

-I &lt;date&gt;  
The issue date of the new publication module in the form of YYYY-MM-DD.

-i  
Include issue information in referenced data modules.

-L &lt;language&gt;  
The language ISO code of the new publication module.

-l  
Include language information in referenced data modules.

-m &lt;remarks&gt;  
Set remarks for the new publication module.

-n &lt;issue&gt;  
The issue number of the new publication module.

-p  
Prompt the user for any values left unspecified.

-q  
Do not report an error when the file already exists.

-R &lt;CAGE&gt;  
The CAGE code of the responsible partner company.

-r &lt;RPC&gt;  
The responsible partner company enterprise name of the new publication
module.

-s &lt;title&gt;  
The short title of the new publication module.

-T  
Include titles in referenced data modules.

-t &lt;title&gt;  
The title of the new publication module.

-v  
Print the file name of the newly created publication module.

-w &lt;inwork&gt;  
The inwork number of the new publication module.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;DM&gt;...  
Any number of data modules to automatically reference in the new
publication module's content.

`.defaults` file
----------------

Refer to s1kd-newdm(1) for information on the `.defaults` file which is
used by all the s1kd-new\* commands.

EXAMPLE
=======

    $ s1kd-newpm -# EX-12345-00001-00

Commit message:

Add libxml2 parser options to all tools
These options enable features of the XML parser which are disabled by
default as a precaution, such as external entity and DTD resolving.

tools/s1kd-newpm/README.md, after:

NAME
====

s1kd-newpm - Create new S1000D publication module.

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-newpm [options] [<DM>...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-newpm* tool creates a new S1000D publication module with the
publication module code and other metadata specified.

OPTIONS
=======

-\# &lt;PMC&gt;  
The publication module code of the new publication module.

-$ &lt;issue&gt;  
Specify which issue of S1000D to use. Currently supported issues are:

-   4.2 (default)

-   4.1

-   4.0

-   3.0

-   2.3

-   2.2

-   2.1

-   2.0

-@ &lt;filename&gt;  
Save new publication module as &lt;filename&gt; instead of an
automatically named file in the current directory.

-% &lt;dir&gt;  
Use the XML template in &lt;dir&gt; instead of the built-in template.
The template must be named `pm.xml` in &lt;dir&gt; and must conform to
the default S1000D issue (4.2).

-\~ &lt;dir&gt;  
Dump the built-in XML template to the specified directory.

-b &lt;BREX&gt;  
BREX data module code.

-C &lt;country&gt;  
The country ISO code of the new publication module.

-c &lt;sec&gt;  
The security classification of the new publication module.

-D  
Include issue date in referenced data modules.

-d &lt;defaults&gt;  
Specify the `.defaults` file name.

-f  
Overwrite existing file.

-I &lt;date&gt;  
The issue date of the new publication module in the form of YYYY-MM-DD.

-i  
Include issue information in referenced data modules.

-L &lt;language&gt;  
The language ISO code of the new publication module.

-l  
Include language information in referenced data modules.

-m &lt;remarks&gt;  
Set remarks for the new publication module.

-n &lt;issue&gt;  
The issue number of the new publication module.

-p  
Prompt the user for any values left unspecified.

-q  
Do not report an error when the file already exists.

-R &lt;CAGE&gt;  
The CAGE code of the responsible partner company.

-r &lt;RPC&gt;  
The responsible partner company enterprise name of the new publication
module.

-s &lt;title&gt;  
The short title of the new publication module.

-T  
Include titles in referenced data modules.

-t &lt;title&gt;  
The title of the new publication module.

-v  
Print the file name of the newly created publication module.

-w &lt;inwork&gt;  
The inwork number of the new publication module.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;DM&gt;...  
Any number of data modules to automatically reference in the new
publication module's content.

In addition, the following options enable features of the XML parser
that are disabled as a precaution by default:

--dtdload  
Load the external DTD.

--net  
Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

--noent  
Resolve entities.

`.defaults` file
----------------

Refer to s1kd-newdm(1) for information on the `.defaults` file which is
used by all the s1kd-new\* commands.

EXAMPLE
=======

    $ s1kd-newpm -# EX-12345-00001-00
