tools/s1kd-uom/example/README.md, before:

# s1kd-uom example

The following tables are all produced from the same source table using
semantic quantity markup.

The exchange rates used to convert the currencies were pulled
automatically from [ExchangeRate-API](https://www.exchangerate-api.com)
on 2019-11-21.

## output-CA.md

| Specification | Value       |
|---------------|-------------|
| Mass          | 2.8 kg      |
| Width         | 275 mm      |
| Height        | 53 mm       |
| Depth         | 305 mm      |
| Speed         | 100 km/h    |
| Temperature   | 23 °C       |
| Price         | $380.00 CAD |

## output-EU.md

| Specification | Value       |
|---------------|-------------|
| Mass          | 2,8 kg      |
| Width         | 275 mm      |
| Height        | 53 mm       |
| Depth         | 305 mm      |
| Speed         | 100 km/h    |
| Temperature   | 23 °C       |
| Price         | €258,46 EUR |

## output-US.md

| Specification | Value       |
|---------------|-------------|
| Mass          | 6 lb        |
| Width         | 11 in       |
| Height        | 2 in        |
| Depth         | 12 in       |
| Speed         | 62 mi/h     |
| Temperature   | 73 °F       |
| Price         | $286.09 USD |

Commit message:

s1kd-uom: Add dual UOM example

tools/s1kd-uom/example/README.md, after:

# s1kd-uom example

The following tables are all produced from the same source table using
semantic quantity markup.

The exchange rates used to convert the currencies were pulled
automatically from [ExchangeRate-API](https://www.exchangerate-api.com)
on 2019-11-27.

## output-CA.md

| Specification | Value       |
|---------------|-------------|
| Mass          | 2.8 kg      |
| Width         | 275 mm      |
| Height        | 53 mm       |
| Depth         | 305 mm      |
| Speed         | 100 km/h    |
| Temperature   | 23 °C       |
| Price         | $380.00 CAD |

## output-EU.md

| Specification | Value       |
|---------------|-------------|
| Mass          | 2,8 kg      |
| Width         | 275 mm      |
| Height        | 53 mm       |
| Depth         | 305 mm      |
| Speed         | 100 km/h    |
| Temperature   | 23 °C       |
| Price         | €259,37 EUR |

## output-US.md

| Specification | Value       |
|---------------|-------------|
| Mass          | 6 lb        |
| Width         | 11 in       |
| Height        | 2 in        |
| Depth         | 12 in       |
| Speed         | 62 mi/h     |
| Temperature   | 73 °F       |
| Price         | $285.71 USD |

## output-dual.md

| Specification | Value                     |
|---------------|---------------------------|
| Mass          | 2.8 kg (6 lb)             |
| Width         | 275 mm (11 in)            |
| Height        | 53 mm (2 in)              |
| Depth         | 305 mm (12 in)            |
| Speed         | 100 km/h (62 mi/h)        |
| Temperature   | 23 °C (73 °F)             |
| Price         | $380.00 CAD ($285.71 USD) |
