# General

This document provides examples of the usage of the **s1kd-tools**.

The sample commands have been written as they would be used on a Linux
or other Unix-like system, but should work more-or-less the same on most
operating systems. OS-specific commands used in examples (e.g., `mkdir`)
may need to be adapted.

![Example - Authoring with Vim +
MuPDF](doc/ICN-S1KDTOOLS-A-000000-A-KHZAE-00002-A-001-01.PNG)

# Initial setup

![Initial setup](doc/ICN-S1KDTOOLS-A-000000-A-KHZAE-00005-A-001-01.GIF)

The first step is to create a folder for the new S1000D project.
Example:

    $ mkdir myproject
    $ cd myproject

After that, you should create two files: `.defaults` and `.dmtypes`.
These files can be created automatically using the **s1kd-defaults**
tool to initialize the new CSDB:

    $ s1kd-defaults -i

Afterwards, these files can be edited to customize them for your
project. More information on the contents of these files is provided
below.

> **Note**
> 
> If the tools are run in a directory that does not have these
> configuration files, they will search for them in the parent
> directories to find the top of the CSDB directory tree.

## `.defaults` file

The `.defaults` file is used by all of the s1kd-new\* tools. It provides
default values for various S1000D metadata. The `.defaults` file can be
written in either a simple text format or an XML format.

**Example of simple text format:**

    languageIsoCode            en
    countryIsoCode             CA
    responsiblePartnerCompany  khzae.net
    originator                 khzae.net
    brex                       MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-022A-D
    techName                   My project

**Example of XML format:**

    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <defaults>
    <default ident="languageIsoCode" value="en"/>
    <default ident="countryIsoCode" value="CA"/>
    <default ident="responsiblePartnerCompany" value="khzae.net"/>
    <default ident="originator" value="khzae.net"/>
    <default ident="brex" value="MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-022A-D"/>
    <default ident="techName" value="My project"/>
    </defaults>

## `.dmtypes` file

The `.dmtypes` file is used by the **s1kd-newdm** tool. It contains a
list of information codes and associated info names and schemas to be
used when creating new data modules. Like the `.defaults` file, it can
be written using either the simple text format or XML format.

**Example of simple text format:**

    009  frontmatter  Table of contents
    022  brex         Business rules exchange
    040  descript     Description
    130  proced       Normal operation

**Example of XML format:**

    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <dmtypes>
    <type infoCode="009" infoName="Table of contents"
    schema="frontmatter"/>
    <type infoCode="022" infoName="Business rules exchange"
    schema="brex"/>
    <type infoCode="040" infoName="Description"
    schema="descript"/>
    <type infoCode="130" infoName="Normal operation"
    schema="proced"/>
    </dmtypes>

The s1kd-newdm tool contains a default set of information code
definitions. This can be used to create a default `.dmtypes` file by use
of the `-.` (simple text format) or `-,` (XML) options:

`$ s1kd-newdm -, > .dmtypes`

The generated `.dmtypes` file can then be customized to fit your
project.

# Creating the DMRL and populating the CSDB

![Creating the DMRL and populating the
CSDB](doc/ICN-S1KDTOOLS-A-000000-A-KHZAE-00006-A-001-01.GIF)

The next step is to prepare the Data Management Requirements List (DMRL)
for the project. The DMRL will contain a list of all the CSDB objects
initially required by your project, and can be used to automatically
populate your CSDB.

If you do not already have a DMRL, the **s1kd-newdml** tool can be used
to create a new one:

    $ s1kd-newdml -# MYPRJ-NCAGE-C-2017-00001

This would create the file `DML-MYPRJ-NCAGE-C-2017-00001_000-01.XML` in
your CSDB folder.

## Adding DMRL entries

Each entry in the DMRL describes a data module that is planned to be
created:

    <dmlContent>
    <dmlEntry>
    <dmRef>
    <dmRefIdent>
    <dmCode modelIdentCode="MYPRJ" systemDiffCode="A" systemCode="00"
    subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00" 
    disassyCode="00" disassyCodeVariant="A" infoCode="040"
    infoCodeVariant="A" itemLocationCode="D"/>
    </dmRefIdent>
    <dmRefAddressItems>
    <dmTitle>
    <techName>My project</techName>
    <infoName>Description</infoName>
    </dmTitle>
    </dmRefAddressItems>
    </dmRef>
    <security securityClassification="01"/>
    <responsiblePartnerCompany>
    <enterpriseName>khzae.net</enterpriseName>
    </responsiblePartnerCompany>
    </dmlEntry>
    ...
    </dmlContent>

The XML for the `dmRef` of each entry can be quickly generated using the
**s1kd-ref** tool:

    $ s1kd-ref DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D

## Populating the CSDB from the DMRL

Once the DMRL is prepared, the **s1kd-dmrl** tool can be used to
automatically populate the CSDB based on the CSDB objects listed in the
DMRL:

    $ s1kd-dmrl DML-MYPRJ-NCAGE-C-2017-00001_000-01.XML

Information not included in the DMRL entry for a CSDB object is pulled
from the `.defaults` file (and the `.dmtypes` file for data modules).

The DMRL should be updated throughout the lifecycle of a project. When
new entries are added, simply use the **s1kd-dmrl** tool again to create
the newly added data modules. Already existing data modules will not be
overwritten, unless the -f option is specified. The -q option will
suppress the messages indicating that a data module that already exists
will not be overwritten:

    $ s1kd-dmrl -q DML-MYPRJ-NCAGE-C-2017-00001_000-02.XML

## Creating CSDB objects on-the-fly

Data modules and other CSDB objects can also be created in an
"on-the-fly" manner, without the use of a DMRL, by invoking the
s1kd-new\* set of tools directly, as with s1kd-newdml above. For
example, to create a new data module:

    $ s1kd-newdm -# MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D

This would create the file
`DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML` in your CSDB folder.

Each of the s1kd-new\* tools has various options for setting specific
metadata, and information not included as arguments to these commands is
pulled from the `.defaults` and `.dmtypes` files.

# Data module workflow

Data modules are put through the general S1000D workflow with the
**s1kd-upissue** tool. Whenever a data module will be changed, the
s1kd-upissue tool should first be used to indicate the forthcoming
change, creating the next inwork issue of the data module.

## Inwork data modules

To increment the inwork issue of a data module, the s1kd-upissue tool is
called without any additional options:

    $ s1kd-upissue DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML

Assuming this data module was just created, it would be incremented from
initial inwork issue 000-01 to initial inwork issue 000-02. After
upissuing, make the changes. For example:

**`DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML`:**

    <content>
    <description>
    <levelledPara>
    <title>General</title>
    <para>This is my project.</para>
    </levelledPara>
    </description>
    </content>

**`DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-02_EN-CA.XML`:**

    <content>
    <description>
    <levelledPara>
    <title>General</title>
    <para>This is my project.</para>
    <para>My project is maintained using S1000D.</para>
    </levelledPara>
    </description>
    </content>

## Making data modules official

Before a data module can be made official, it must be validated. This
means:

  - It is a valid XML file

  - It is valid according to the relevant S1000D schema

  - It is valid according to the relevant business rules

  - Any applicability filtering applied will not affect the above

  - The actual narrative (content) is correct

![Data module validation
tests](doc/ICN-S1KDTOOLS-A-000000-A-KHZAE-00008-A-001-01.GIF)

### Validating against the schema

The first two points can be verified with the **s1kd-validate** tool.
This tool will indicate any problems with the data module in terms of
XML syntax and its correctness regarding its S1000D schema:

    $ s1kd-validate DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-03_EN-CA.XML

### Validating against a BREX data module

The third point can be verified using the **s1kd-brexcheck** tool. This
tool will indicate any places where a data module violates computable
business rules as specified in a Business Rules Exchange (BREX) data
module.

    $ s1kd-brexcheck DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-03_EN-CA.XML

The BREX allows a project to customize S1000D, for example, by
disallowing certain elements or attributes:

    <structureObjectRule>
    <objectPath allowedObjectFlag="0">//emphasis</objectPath>
    <objectUse>The emphasis element is not allowed.</objectUse>
    </structureObjectRule>

Or by tailoring the allowed values of certain elements or attributes:

    <structureObjectRule>
    <objectPath allowedObjectFlag="2">
    //@securityClassification
    </objectPath>
    <objectUse>
    The security classification must be 01 (Unclassified)
    or 02 (Classified).
    </objectUse>
    <objectValue valueAllowed="01">Unclassified</objectValue>
    <objectValue valueAllowed="02">Classified</objectValue>
    </structureObjectRule>

Each data module references the BREX it should be checked against, and
BREX data modules can reference other BREX data modules to create a
layered set of business rules, for example, Project-related rules and
Organization-related rules.

Unless otherwise specified, data modules will reference the S1000D
default BREX, which contains a base set of business rules.

To get started with your project's own business rules, you can create a
simple BREX data module based on the current defaults of your CSDB using
the -B option of the s1kd-newdm tool:

    $ s1kd-newdm -B -# MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-022A-D

This will use the customized `.defaults` and `.dmtypes` files to
generate a basic set of business rules.

### Checking applicability

The fourth point can be tested using the **s1kd-appcheck** tool:

    $ s1kd-appcheck DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-03_EN-CA.XML

The S1000D applicability model allows for conditional processing to be
applied both to whole data modules as well as parts of a data module.
However, this latter functionality means that, if elements are removed
as part of applicability filtering, the validity of the data module in
regards to the S1000D schema and business rules can change.

The s1kd-appcheck tool can report product attribute or condition
assignments which would cause the data module to become invalid after
filtering.

### Quality assurance verification

In contrast to the first four points, which can be verified
automatically, the last point is generally not an automatic process, and
involves quality assurance testing by a human. That a data module has
been first or second QA tested can be indicated with the s1kd-upissue
tool:

    $ s1kd-upissue -1 tabtop -2 ttandoo ...

Once the data module is validated, the s1kd-upissue tool is used to make
it official with the `-i` option:

    $ s1kd-upissue -i DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-03_EN-CA.XML

## Changes to official data modules

When a change must be made to an official data module (for example, as a
result of feedback), the s1kd-upissue tool is used again to bring the
data module back to the inwork state:

    $ s1kd-upissue DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML

Changes between official issues of a data module are indicated with
reasons for update and change marking. For example:

**`DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML`:**

    <content>
    <description>
    <levelledPara>
    <title>General</title>
    <para>This is my project.</para>
    <para>My project is maintained using S1000D.</para>
    </levelledPara>
    </description>
    </content>

**`DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_001-01_EN-CA.XML`:**

    <dmStatus issueType="changed">
    <!-- ...... -->
    <reasonForUpdate id="rfu-0001">
    <simplePara>Added reference to tools used.</simplePara>
    </reasonForUpdate>
    </dmStatus>
    <!-- ...... -->
    <content>
    <description>
    <levelledPara>
    <title>General</title>
    <para>This is my project.</para>
    <para changeType="modify" changeMark="1"
    reasonForUpdateRefIds="rfu-0001">My project is maintained using
    S1000D and s1kd-tools.</para>
    </levelledPara>
    </description>
    </content>

Reasons for update from the previous official issue are automatically
removed when upissuing to the first inwork issue.

## Deleting data modules

The basic cycle continues until a data module is deleted. "Deleting" a
data module is a special case of upissuing:

    $ s1kd-upissue -i -z deleted ...

The data module is upissued to the next official issue, and it's issue
type is set to "`deleted`".

Deleted data modules may be reinstated later in a similar way:

    $ s1kd-upissue -z rinstate-status ...

The data module is upissued to the next inwork issue, and the issue type
is set to one of the "`rinstate-x"` types.

# Building publications

S1000D publications are managed by use of publication modules. Like data
modules, publication modules may be created as part of the project's
DMRL:

    <dmlEntry>
    <pmRef>
    <pmRefIdent>
    <pmCode modelIdentCode="MYPRJ" pmIssuer="12345" pmNumber="00001"
    pmVolume="00"/>
    </pmRefIdent>
    <pmRefAddressItems>
    <pmTitle>My publication</pmTitle>
    </pmRefAddressItems>
    </pmRef>
    <responsiblePartnerCompany>
    <enterpriseName>khzae.net</enterpriseName>
    </responsiblePartnerCompany>
    </dmlEntry>

or "on-the-fly" with the **s1kd-newpm** tool:

    $ s1kd-newpm -# MYPRJ-12345-00001-00

## Publication module content

The publication module lays out the hierarchical structure of the data
modules in a publication:

    <content>
    <pmEntry>
    <pmEntryTitle>Front matter</pmEntryTitle>
    <dmRef>
    <dmRefIdent>
    <dmCode modelIdentCode="MYPRJ" systemDiffCode="A" systemCode="00"
    subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00" disassyCode="00"
    disassyCodeVariant="A" infoCode="001" infoCodeVariant="A"
    itemLocationCode="D"/>
    </dmRefIdent>
    <dmRefAddressItems>
    <dmTitle>
    <techName>My project</techName>
    <infoName>Title page</infoName>
    </dmTitle>
    </dmRefAddressItems>
    </dmRef>
    </pmEntry>
    <pmEntry>
    <pmEntryTitle>General info</pmEntryTitle>
    <dmRef>
    <dmRefIdent>
    <dmCode modelIdentCode="MYPRJ" systemDiffCode="A" systemCode="00"
    subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00" disassyCode="00"
    disassyCodeVariant="A" infoCode="040" infoCodeVariant="A"
    itemLocationCode="D"/>
    </dmRefIdent>
    <dmRefAddressItems>
    <dmTitle>
    <techName>My project</techName>
    <infoName>Description</infoName>
    </dmTitle>
    </dmRefAddressItems>
    </dmRef>
    </pmEntry>
    </content>

## Creating a customized publication

![Applicability filtering
example](doc/ICN-S1KDTOOLS-A-000000-A-KHZAE-00007-A-001-01.GIF)

The S1000D applicability model and the **s1kd-instance** tool enable the
creation of customized publications, which are filtered for a particular
customer or product. For example, a data module may contain applicabilty
for two versions of a product:

    <para>
    This is some common information about the product.
    </para>
    <para applicRefId="app-versionA">
    This information only applies to version A.
    </para>
    <para applicRefId="app-versionB">
    This information only applies to version B.
    </para>

When you deliver this data module to a customer with Version B, you can
exclude information which is not applicable to them by filtering it:

    $ s1kd-instance -s version:prodattr=B <DM>

To filter a whole publication, use the -O option of the s1kd-instance
tool to output multiple filtered objects into a directory:

    $ s1kd-instance -s version:prodattr=B -O customerB DMC-*.XML

The newly created `customerB` directory will contain the filtered
versions of these data modules.

If your CSDB contains multiple, separate publications, the **s1kd-refs**
tool can be used to select only those data modules which apply to a
particular publication module:

    $ s1kd-refs -s <PM> |
    > xargs s1kd-instance -s version:prodattr=B -O customerB

The above command will filter the publication module and all included
data modules, and output the resulting objects to the `customerB`
directory.

## Creating a script for publishing

The publishing process will often involve many different steps, and many
different tools, so it's a good idea to create a script to automate it.
Below is an example of a script which publishes a CSDB for a given
product serial number:

    #!/bin/sh
    
    # Usage: sh build.sh <zip> <csdb> <serialno>
    zip=$1
    csdb=$2
    serialno=$3
    
    # Create a temporary directory.
    tmp=$(mktemp -d)
    
    # Copy all CSDB objects to the temp directory. The CSDB objects
    # are filtered for a given serial number.
    s1kd-ls "$csdb" |
      xargs s1kd-instance -O "$tmp" -s serialno:prodattr="$serialno"
    
    # Synchronize references in the filtered DMs. This is necessary
    # since some references may have been removed during filtering.
    s1kd-ls -D "$tmp" |
      xargs s1kd-syncrefs -f
    
    # Create the ZIP package.
    zip -jr "$zip" "$tmp"
    
    # Clean up the temp directory.
    rm -r "$tmp"

# Use with other version control systems

The issue/inwork numbers and S1000D file naming conventions as seen
above provide a basic form of version control. In this case, each file
represents a single issue of a CSDB object, and multiple files together
represent the whole logical object. For example, all of the following
files represent different versions of the same object:

  - `DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML`

  - `DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-02_EN-CA.XML`

  - `DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML`

However, if you prefer to use an existing version control system such as
Git or SVN, it is often more useful for each file to represent a whole
object.

The s1kd-tools support an alternate naming convention for this case.
Specifying the -N option to certain tools will omit the issue and inwork
numbers from filenames of CSDB objects. Taking the s1kd-newdm tool
example from above, but adding the -N option as follows:

    $ s1kd-newdm -N -# MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D

would create the file `DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_EN-CA.XML` in
your CSDB folder. The s1kd-upissue tool works similarly:

    $ s1kd-upissue -N -i DMC-MYPRJ-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_EN-CA.XML

The issue and inwork numbers are updated in the XML metadata, but
instead of creating a new file, the original is overwritten. The
previous inwork issues are therefore stored as part of the external
version control system's history, rather than as individual files.
