INTRO.md, before:

NAME
====

s1kd-tools - Tools for S1000D data

DESCRIPTION
===========

S1000D
------

**S1000D** is "an international specification for the procurement and
production of technical publications", part of the S-Series of ILS
specifications. The main focus of S1000D is the breakdown and
classification of documents in to individual components, called "data
modules", which can be re-used in multiple publications. These data
modules are typically authored using a set of provided XML schemas,
allowing them to be automatically managed in a Common Source Database
(CSDB) and validated against a defined set of project "business rules".

s1kd-tools
----------

The **s1kd-tools** are a set of small tools for creating and
manipulating S1000D data. They are designed to be used as a standalone
method of maintaining a simple S1000D CSDB, in conjunction with a more
typical version control system such as Git or SVN, as a backend to
implement a more complex S1000D CSDB, or to support an existing S1000D
CSDB already in use by a project.

CSDB
----

Common Source Databases can be implemented in any number of ways. For
the purposes of the s1kd-tools, the CSDB is simply a directory within a
filesystem. Use of the "File-based transfer" file naming conventions in
Chap 7 of the S1000D specification are recommended, and most of the
tools will use these conventions when creating or listing CSDB objects
represented by files. In order to use these tools in conjuction with
other implementations of CSDBs, a project can make use of "transfer
packages" also described in Chap 7 to facilitate interchange between the
two kinds of CSDB.

Relationship to the S1000D process
----------------------------------

The s1kd-tools can support multiple parts of the basic S1000D process:

1.  **Generation:** The generation of new CSDB objects is supported by
    the **s1kd-dmrl** tool and the **s1kd-new\*** set of tools. These
    provide two methods of creating objects, either using a data
    management requirements list (DMRL) or a more on-the-fly approach
    using the s1kd-new\* tools directly.

    The **s1kd-defaults** tool is used to manage the files which contain
    default metadata for new CSDB objects.

2.  **Authoring:** These tools support the authoring process.

    The **s1kd-addicn** tool creates the notation and entity elements to
    reference an ICN in a data module.

    The **s1kd-ls** tool lists data modules within a directory.

    The **s1kd-metadata** tool lists and edits S1000D metadata on CSDB
    objects.

    The **s1kd-mvref** tool changes references to one object into
    references to another.

    The **s1kd-ref** tool can be used to quickly insert references to
    other CSDB objects.

    The **s1kd-sns** tool can be used to organize the CSDB using a given
    SNS structure.

    The **s1kd-transform** tool applies XSLT transformations to CSDB
    objects.

    The **s1kd-upissue** tool moves CSDB objects through the standard
    S1000D workflow, between "inwork" (draft) and "official" states.

3.  **Validation:** These tools all validate different aspects of CSDB
    objects.

    The **s1kd-appcheck** tool validates the applicability of CSDB
    objects.

    The **s1kd-brexcheck** tool validates CSDB objects against a
    business rules exchange (BREX) data module, which contains the
    project-defined computable business rules.

    The **s1kd-refs** tool lists references in a CSDB object to generate
    a list of dependencies on other CSDB objects.

    The **s1kd-validate** tool validates CSDB objects according to their
    S1000D schema and general correctness as XML documents.

4.  **Publication:** These tools support the production of publications
    from a CSDB.

    The **s1kd-acronyms** tool can automatically mark up acronyms within
    data modules, and can also generate lists of acronyms marked up
    within data modules.

    The **s1kd-aspp** tool preprocesses applicability statements in a
    data module, generating display text and "presentation"
    applicability statements.

    The **s1kd-flatten** tool flattens a publication module and
    referenced data modules in to a single "deliverable" file for a
    publishing system.

    The **s1kd-fmgen** tool generates front matter data module content
    from a publication module.

    The **s1kd-icncatalog** tool resolves ICN references in objects.

    The **s1kd-index** tool flags index keywords in a data module based
    on a user-defined list.

    The **s1kd-instance** tool produces "instances" of CSDB objects
    using applicability filtering and/or common information repositories
    (CIRs).

    The **s1kd-neutralize** tool generates IETP neutral metadata for
    CSDB objects.

    The **s1kd-syncrefs** tool generates the References table within
    data modules.

    The **s1kd-uom** tool converts units of measure used in data
    modules.

SEE ALSO
========

S1000D website: http://www.s1000d.org

Manpages for each tool:

-   s1kd-acronyms(1)

-   s1kd-addicn(1)

-   s1kd-appcheck(1)

-   s1kd-aspp(1)

-   s1kd-brexcheck(1)

-   s1kd-defaults(1)

-   s1kd-dmrl(1)

-   s1kd-flatten(1)

-   s1kd-fmgen(1)

-   s1kd-icncatalog(1)

-   s1kd-index(1)

-   s1kd-instance(1)

-   s1kd-ls(1)

-   s1kd-metadata(1)

-   s1kd-mvref(1)

-   s1kd-neutralize(1)

-   s1kd-newcom(1)

-   s1kd-newddn(1)

-   s1kd-newdm(1)

-   s1kd-newdml(1)

-   s1kd-newimf(1)

-   s1kd-newpm(1)

-   s1kd-newsmc(1)

-   s1kd-newupf(1)

-   s1kd-ref(1)

-   s1kd-refs(1)

-   s1kd-sns(1)

-   s1kd-syncrefs(1)

-   s1kd-transform(1)

-   s1kd-uom(1)

-   s1kd-upissue(1)

-   s1kd-validate(1)

Configuration files:

-   s1kd-defaults(5)

Commit message:

Add s1kd-repcheck to INTRO.md and COMPATIBILITY.md

INTRO.md, after:

NAME
====

s1kd-tools - Tools for S1000D data

DESCRIPTION
===========

S1000D
------

**S1000D** is "an international specification for the procurement and
production of technical publications", part of the S-Series of ILS
specifications. The main focus of S1000D is the breakdown and
classification of documents in to individual components, called "data
modules", which can be re-used in multiple publications. These data
modules are typically authored using a set of provided XML schemas,
allowing them to be automatically managed in a Common Source Database
(CSDB) and validated against a defined set of project "business rules".

s1kd-tools
----------

The **s1kd-tools** are a set of small tools for creating and
manipulating S1000D data. They are designed to be used as a standalone
method of maintaining a simple S1000D CSDB, in conjunction with a more
typical version control system such as Git or SVN, as a backend to
implement a more complex S1000D CSDB, or to support an existing S1000D
CSDB already in use by a project.

CSDB
----

Common Source Databases can be implemented in any number of ways. For
the purposes of the s1kd-tools, the CSDB is simply a directory within a
filesystem. Use of the "File-based transfer" file naming conventions in
Chap 7 of the S1000D specification are recommended, and most of the
tools will use these conventions when creating or listing CSDB objects
represented by files. In order to use these tools in conjuction with
other implementations of CSDBs, a project can make use of "transfer
packages" also described in Chap 7 to facilitate interchange between the
two kinds of CSDB.

Relationship to the S1000D process
----------------------------------

The s1kd-tools can support multiple parts of the basic S1000D process:

1.  **Generation:** The generation of new CSDB objects is supported by
    the **s1kd-dmrl** tool and the **s1kd-new\*** set of tools. These
    provide two methods of creating objects, either using a data
    management requirements list (DMRL) or a more on-the-fly approach
    using the s1kd-new\* tools directly.

    The **s1kd-defaults** tool is used to manage the files which contain
    default metadata for new CSDB objects.

2.  **Authoring:** These tools support the authoring process.

    The **s1kd-addicn** tool creates the notation and entity elements to
    reference an ICN in a data module.

    The **s1kd-ls** tool lists data modules within a directory.

    The **s1kd-metadata** tool lists and edits S1000D metadata on CSDB
    objects.

    The **s1kd-mvref** tool changes references to one object into
    references to another.

    The **s1kd-ref** tool can be used to quickly insert references to
    other CSDB objects.

    The **s1kd-sns** tool can be used to organize the CSDB using a given
    SNS structure.

    The **s1kd-transform** tool applies XSLT transformations to CSDB
    objects.

    The **s1kd-upissue** tool moves CSDB objects through the standard
    S1000D workflow, between "inwork" (draft) and "official" states.

3.  **Validation:** These tools all validate different aspects of CSDB
    objects.

    The **s1kd-appcheck** tool validates the applicability of CSDB
    objects.

    The **s1kd-brexcheck** tool validates CSDB objects against a
    business rules exchange (BREX) data module, which contains the
    project-defined computable business rules.

    The **s1kd-refs** tool lists references in a CSDB object to generate
    a list of dependencies on other CSDB objects.

    The **s1kd-repcheck** tool validates CIR references in CSDB objects.

    The **s1kd-validate** tool validates CSDB objects according to their
    S1000D schema and general correctness as XML documents.

4.  **Publication:** These tools support the production of publications
    from a CSDB.

    The **s1kd-acronyms** tool can automatically mark up acronyms within
    data modules, and can also generate lists of acronyms marked up
    within data modules.

    The **s1kd-aspp** tool preprocesses applicability statements in a
    data module, generating display text and "presentation"
    applicability statements.

    The **s1kd-flatten** tool flattens a publication module and
    referenced data modules in to a single "deliverable" file for a
    publishing system.

    The **s1kd-fmgen** tool generates front matter data module content
    from a publication module.

    The **s1kd-icncatalog** tool resolves ICN references in objects.

    The **s1kd-index** tool flags index keywords in a data module based
    on a user-defined list.

    The **s1kd-instance** tool produces "instances" of CSDB objects
    using applicability filtering and/or common information repositories
    (CIRs).

    The **s1kd-neutralize** tool generates IETP neutral metadata for
    CSDB objects.

    The **s1kd-syncrefs** tool generates the References table within
    data modules.

    The **s1kd-uom** tool converts units of measure used in data
    modules.

SEE ALSO
========

S1000D website: http://www.s1000d.org

Manpages for each tool:

-   s1kd-acronyms(1)

-   s1kd-addicn(1)

-   s1kd-appcheck(1)

-   s1kd-aspp(1)

-   s1kd-brexcheck(1)

-   s1kd-defaults(1)

-   s1kd-dmrl(1)

-   s1kd-flatten(1)

-   s1kd-fmgen(1)

-   s1kd-icncatalog(1)

-   s1kd-index(1)

-   s1kd-instance(1)

-   s1kd-ls(1)

-   s1kd-metadata(1)

-   s1kd-mvref(1)

-   s1kd-neutralize(1)

-   s1kd-newcom(1)

-   s1kd-newddn(1)

-   s1kd-newdm(1)

-   s1kd-newdml(1)

-   s1kd-newimf(1)

-   s1kd-newpm(1)

-   s1kd-newsmc(1)

-   s1kd-newupf(1)

-   s1kd-ref(1)

-   s1kd-refs(1)

-   s1kd-repcheck(1)

-   s1kd-sns(1)

-   s1kd-syncrefs(1)

-   s1kd-transform(1)

-   s1kd-uom(1)

-   s1kd-upissue(1)

-   s1kd-validate(1)

Configuration files:

-   s1kd-defaults(5)
