s1kd-flatten/README.md, before:

NAME
====

s1kd-flatten - Flatten a publication module for publishing

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-flatten [-Nxp] <PM> [<DM>...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-flatten* tool combines a publication module and the data modules it references in to a single file for use with a publishing system.

Data modules are searched for in the current directory using the data module code, language and/or issue info provided in each reference.

OPTIONS
=======

-h -?  
Show help/usage message.

-N  
Assume that the files representing the referenced data modules do not include the issue info in their filenames, i.e. they were created using the -N option of the s1kd-new\* tools.

-p  
Instead of the "flat" PM format, use a "publication" XML format, where the root element `publication` contains XInclude references to the publication module and the referenced data modules.

-x  
Use XInclude rather than copying each data module's contents directly inside the publication module. DTD entities in data modules will only be carried over to the final publication when using this option, otherwise they do not carry over when copying the data module.

&lt;DM&gt;...  
When using the -p option, the filenames to include can be specified manually as additional arguments instead of searching for them in the current directory. When not using the -p option, additional arguments are ignored.

&lt;PM&gt;  
The publication module to flatten.

Commit message:

Add -I option to s1kd-flatten

s1kd-flatten/README.md, after:

NAME
====

s1kd-flatten - Flatten a publication module for publishing

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-flatten [-I <path>] [-Npx] <PM> [<DM>...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-flatten* tool combines a publication module and the data modules it references in to a single file for use with a publishing system.

Data modules are by default searched for in the current directory using the data module code, language and/or issue info provided in each reference. Additional directories can be searched using the -I option.

OPTIONS
=======

-h -?  
Show help/usage message.

-I &lt;path&gt;  
Add &lt;path&gt; to the list of directories that the tool will search when resolving references.

-N  
Assume that the files representing the referenced data modules do not include the issue info in their filenames, i.e. they were created using the -N option of the s1kd-new\* tools.

-p  
Instead of the "flat" PM format, use a "publication" XML format, where the root element `publication` contains XInclude references to the publication module and the referenced data modules.

-x  
Use XInclude rather than copying each data module's contents directly inside the publication module. DTD entities in data modules will only be carried over to the final publication when using this option, otherwise they do not carry over when copying the data module.

&lt;DM&gt;...  
When using the -p option, the filenames to include can be specified manually as additional arguments instead of searching for them in the current directory. When not using the -p option, additional arguments are ignored.

&lt;PM&gt;  
The publication module to flatten.
