tools/s1kd-validate/README.md, before:

NAME
====

s1kd-validate - Validate S1000D CSDB objects against their schemas

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-validate [-d <dir>] [-s <path>] [-x <URI>] [-efloqvh?]
                  [<object>...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-validate* tool validates S1000D CSDB objects, checking whether
they are valid XML files and if they are valid against their own S1000D
schemas.

OPTIONS
=======

-d, --schemas &lt;dir&gt;  
Search for schemas in &lt;dir&gt;. Normally, the URI of the schema is
used to fetch it locally or over a network, but this option will force
searching to be performed only in the specified directory.

This can also be accomplished through the use of XML catalogs.

-e, --ignore-empty  
Ignore validation for empty or non-XML documents.

-f, --filenames  
List invalid files.

-h, -?, --help  
Show help/usage message.

-l, --list  
Treat input as a list of object names to validate, rather than an object
itself.

-o, --output-valid  
Output valid CSDB objects to stdout.

-q, --quiet  
Quiet mode. The tool will not output anything to stdout or stderr.
Success/failure will only be indicated through the exit status.

-s, --schema &lt;path&gt;  
Validate the objects against the specified schema, rather than the one
that they reference.

-v, --verbose  
Verbose mode. Success/failure will be explicitly reported on top of any
errors.

-x, --exclude &lt;URI&gt;  
Exclude an XML namespace from the validation. Elements in the namespace
specified by &lt;URI&gt; are ignored.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;object&gt;...  
Any number of CSDB objects to validate. If none are specified, input is
read from stdin.

In addition, the following options enable features of the XML parser
that are disabled as a precaution by default:

--dtdload  
Load the external DTD.

--huge  
Remove any internal arbitrary parser limits.

--net  
Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

--noent  
Resolve entities.

--parser-errors  
Emit errors from parser.

--parser-warnings  
Emit warnings from parser.

--xinclude  
Do XInclude processing.

Multi-spec directory with -d option
-----------------------------------

The -d option can point either to a directory containing the XSD schema
files for a single S1000D spec (i.e. the last part of the schema URI),
or to a directory containing schemas for multiple specs. The latter must
follow a particular format for the tool to locate the appropriate
schemas for a given spec:

    schemas/    <-- The directory passed to -d
        S1000D_4-1/
            xml_schema_flat/
                [4.1 XSD files...]
        S1000D_4-2/
            xml_schema_flat/
                [4.2 XSD files...]
        S1000D_5-0/
            xml_schema_flat/
                [5.0 XSD files...]

XML catalogs vs. -d option
--------------------------

XML catalogs provide a more standard method of redirecting public,
network-based resources to local copies. As part of using libxml2, there
are several locations and environment variables from which this tool
will load catalogs.

Below is an example of a catalog file which maps the S1000D schemas to a
local directory:

    <catalog xmlns="urn:oasis:names:tc:entity:xmlns:xml:catalog">
    <rewriteURI uriStartString="http://www.s1000d.org/"
    rewritePrefix="/usr/share/s1kd/schemas/"/>
    </catalog>

This can be placed in a catalog file automatically loaded by libxml2
(e.g., `/etc/xml/catalog`) or saved to a file which is then specified in
an environment variable used by libxml2 (e.g., `XML_CATALOG_FILES`) to
remove the need to use the -d option.

EXIT STATUS
===========

0  
No errors.

1  
Some CSDB objects are not well-formed or valid.

2  
The number of schemas cached exceeded the available memory.

3  
A specified schema could not be read.

EXAMPLE
=======

    $ s1kd-validate DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML

Commit message:

s1kd-validate: Add -D (--remove-deleted) option

tools/s1kd-validate/README.md, after:

NAME
====

s1kd-validate - Validate S1000D CSDB objects against their schemas

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-validate [-d <dir>] [-s <path>] [-x <URI>] [-Defloqvh?]
                  [<object>...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-validate* tool validates S1000D CSDB objects, checking whether
they are valid XML files and if they are valid against their own S1000D
schemas.

OPTIONS
=======

-D, --remove-deleted  
Validate with elements that have a change type of "delete" removed.

-d, --schemas &lt;dir&gt;  
Search for schemas in &lt;dir&gt;. Normally, the URI of the schema is
used to fetch it locally or over a network, but this option will force
searching to be performed only in the specified directory.

This can also be accomplished through the use of XML catalogs.

-e, --ignore-empty  
Ignore validation for empty or non-XML documents.

-f, --filenames  
List invalid files.

-h, -?, --help  
Show help/usage message.

-l, --list  
Treat input as a list of object names to validate, rather than an object
itself.

-o, --output-valid  
Output valid CSDB objects to stdout.

-q, --quiet  
Quiet mode. The tool will not output anything to stdout or stderr.
Success/failure will only be indicated through the exit status.

-s, --schema &lt;path&gt;  
Validate the objects against the specified schema, rather than the one
that they reference.

-v, --verbose  
Verbose mode. Success/failure will be explicitly reported on top of any
errors.

-x, --exclude &lt;URI&gt;  
Exclude an XML namespace from the validation. Elements in the namespace
specified by &lt;URI&gt; are ignored.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;object&gt;...  
Any number of CSDB objects to validate. If none are specified, input is
read from stdin.

In addition, the following options enable features of the XML parser
that are disabled as a precaution by default:

--dtdload  
Load the external DTD.

--huge  
Remove any internal arbitrary parser limits.

--net  
Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

--noent  
Resolve entities.

--parser-errors  
Emit errors from parser.

--parser-warnings  
Emit warnings from parser.

--xinclude  
Do XInclude processing.

Multi-spec directory with -d option
-----------------------------------

The -d option can point either to a directory containing the XSD schema
files for a single S1000D spec (i.e. the last part of the schema URI),
or to a directory containing schemas for multiple specs. The latter must
follow a particular format for the tool to locate the appropriate
schemas for a given spec:

    schemas/    <-- The directory passed to -d
        S1000D_4-1/
            xml_schema_flat/
                [4.1 XSD files...]
        S1000D_4-2/
            xml_schema_flat/
                [4.2 XSD files...]
        S1000D_5-0/
            xml_schema_flat/
                [5.0 XSD files...]

XML catalogs vs. -d option
--------------------------

XML catalogs provide a more standard method of redirecting public,
network-based resources to local copies. As part of using libxml2, there
are several locations and environment variables from which this tool
will load catalogs.

Below is an example of a catalog file which maps the S1000D schemas to a
local directory:

    <catalog xmlns="urn:oasis:names:tc:entity:xmlns:xml:catalog">
    <rewriteURI uriStartString="http://www.s1000d.org/"
    rewritePrefix="/usr/share/s1kd/schemas/"/>
    </catalog>

This can be placed in a catalog file automatically loaded by libxml2
(e.g., `/etc/xml/catalog`) or saved to a file which is then specified in
an environment variable used by libxml2 (e.g., `XML_CATALOG_FILES`) to
remove the need to use the -d option.

EXIT STATUS
===========

0  
No errors.

1  
Some CSDB objects are not well-formed or valid.

2  
The number of schemas cached exceeded the available memory.

3  
A specified schema could not be read.

EXAMPLE
=======

    $ s1kd-validate DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
