tools/s1kd-upissue/README.md, before:

NAME
====

s1kd-upissue - Upissue S1000D data

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-upissue [-04defHilmNqRrsuvw^] [-1 <type>] [-2 <type>]
                 [-c <reason>] [-I <date>] [-t <urt>] [-z <type>]
                 [<file>...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-upissue* tool increases the in-work or issue number of an
S1000D CSDB object.

Any files using an S1000D-esque naming convention, placing the issue and
in-work numbers after the first underscore (\_) character, can also be
"upissued". Files which do not contain the appropriate S1000D metadata
are simply copied.

OPTIONS
=======

-0, --unverified  
Set the quality assurance to unverified.

-1, --first-ver &lt;type&gt;  
Set first verification type (tabtop, onobject, ttandoo). If the object
is second verified and this option is specified without -2
(--second-ver), the second verification will be unset.

-2, --second-ver &lt;type&gt;  
Set second verification type (tabtop, onobject, ttandoo). If the object
is unverified and this option is specified without -1 (--first-ver), the
first verification will be set as the same type as the second
verification.

-4, --remove-marks  
Remove change markup on elements, but not RFUs, in the upissued object.
This is automatically applied if the issue type (-s) is not `"changed"`
or `"rinstate-changed"`.

-c, --reason &lt;reason&gt;  
Add a reason for update to the upissued objects. Multiple RFUs can be
added by specifying this option multiple times.

-d, --dry-run  
Do not actually create or modify any files, only print the name of the
file that would be created or modified.

-e, --erase  
Remove old issue file after upissuing.

-f, --overwrite  
Overwrite existing upissued CSDB objects.

-H, --highlight  
Mark the last specified reason for update (-c) as a highlight.

-h, -?, --help  
Show help/usage message.

-I, --date &lt;date&gt;  
Specify the issue date to use for the upissued object(s). Otherwise, the
current date will be used.

-i, --official  
Increase the issue number of the CSDB object. By default, the in-work
issue is increased.

-l, --list  
Treat input (stdin or arguments) as lists of CSDB objects to upissue,
rather than CSDB objects themselves.

-m, --modify  
Modify issue-related metadata on objects without incrementing the issue
or inwork numbers. The -I and -r options have the opposite effect in
this mode. The modified objects are written to stdout by default, and
the -f option can be used to change them in-place.

-N, --omit-issue  
Omit issue/inwork numbers from filename.

-q, --keep-qa  
Keep quality assurance information from old issue. Normally, when
upissuing an official CSDB object to the first in-work issue, the
quality assurance is set back to "unverified". Specify this option to
indicate the upissue will not affect the contents of the CSDB object,
and so does not require it to be re-verified.

-R, --keep-unassoc-marks  
Delete only change markup on elements associated with an RFU (by use of
the attribute `reasonForUpdateRefIds`). Change markup on other elements
is ignored.

-r, --(keep\|remove)-changes  
Keep old RFUs and change marks. Normally, when upissuing an offical CSDB
object to the first in-work issue, any reasons for update are deleted
automatically, along with any change markup attributes on elements (when
change type is "add" or "modify") or the elements themselves (when
change type is "delete"). This option prevents their deletion.

In -m mode, this option has the opposite effect, causing the current
RFUs and change marks to be removed. The two alternative long option
names, --keep-changes and --remove-changes, allow for the intended
meaning of this option to be expressed clearly in each mode.

-s, --(keep\|change)-date  
Do not change issue date. Normally, when upissuing to the next inwork or
official issue, the issue date is changed to the current date, or the
date specified with the -z option. This option will keep the date of the
previous inwork or official issue.

In -m mode, this option has the opposite effect, causing the date to be
changed. The two alternative long option names, --keep-date and
--change-date, allow for the intended meaning of this option to be
expressed clearly in each mode.

-t, --type &lt;urt&gt;  
Set the updateReasonType of the last specified reason for update (-c).

-u, --clean-rfus  
Remove RFUs which are not associated with any change markup (by use of
the attribute `reasonForUpdateRefIds`).

-v, --verbose  
Print the file name of the upissued CSDB object.

-w, --lock  
Make the old issue file read-only after upissuing. Official issues (-i)
will also be made read-only when they are created.

-z, --issue-type &lt;type&gt;  
Set the issue type of the new issue.

If this option is not specified, then the issue type of the new issue
will be set as follows:

-   if the previous issue is not an official issue (in-work 00), the
    issue type of the new issue will be the same as the previous issue.

-   if the previous issue is an official issue, the issue type of the
    new issue will default to "status".

-^, --remove-deleted  
Remove elements with change type of "delete". These elements are
automatically removed along with all change marks and RFUs when an
object is upissued from official to the next inwork issue. This option
will remove them when upissuing between inwork issues, or when making
the object official.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;file&gt;...  
Any number of CSDB objects or other files to upissue. If none are
specified, the object will be read from stdin and the upissued object
will be written to stdout.

In addition, the following options enable features of the XML parser
that are disabled as a precaution by default:

--dtdload  
Load the external DTD.

--huge  
Remove any internal arbitrary parser limits.

--net  
Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

--noent  
Resolve entities.

--parser-errors  
Emit errors from parser.

--parser-warnings  
Emit warnings from parser.

--xinclude  
Do XInclude processing.

EXAMPLES
========

Data module with issue/inwork in filename
-----------------------------------------

    $ ls
    DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML

    $ s1kd-upissue DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
    $ ls
    DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
    DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-02_EN-CA.XML

    $ s1kd-upissue \
      -i DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-02_EN-CA.XML
    $ ls
    DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
    DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-02_EN-CA.XML
    DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML

Data module without issue/inwork in filename
--------------------------------------------

    $ ls
    DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_EN-US.XML

    $ s1kd-metadata DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_EN-CA.XML \
      -n issueInfo
    000-01
    $ s1kd-upissue -N DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_EN-CA.XML
    $ s1kd-metadata DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_EN-CA.XML \
      -n issueInfo
    000-02

Non-XML file with issue/inwork in filename
------------------------------------------

    $ ls
    TXT-S1KDTOOLS-KHZAE-FOOBAR_000-01_EN-CA.TXT

    $ s1kd-upissue TXT-S1KDTOOLS-KHZAE-00001_000-01_EN-CA.TXT
    $ ls
    TXT-S1KDTOOLS-KHZAE-FOOBAR_000-01_EN-CA.TXT
    TXT-S1KDTOOLS-KHZAE-FOOBAR_000-02_EN-CA.TXT

Commit message:

Add --xml-catalog parser option to all tools
Added an --xml-catalog parser option to all tools, which allows specifying
one or more XML catalogs for use when resolving external resources in
XML documents, such as schemas or entities.

tools/s1kd-upissue/README.md, after:

NAME
====

s1kd-upissue - Upissue S1000D data

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-upissue [-04defHilmNqRrsuvw^] [-1 <type>] [-2 <type>]
                 [-c <reason>] [-I <date>] [-t <urt>] [-z <type>]
                 [<file>...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-upissue* tool increases the in-work or issue number of an
S1000D CSDB object.

Any files using an S1000D-esque naming convention, placing the issue and
in-work numbers after the first underscore (\_) character, can also be
"upissued". Files which do not contain the appropriate S1000D metadata
are simply copied.

OPTIONS
=======

-0, --unverified  
Set the quality assurance to unverified.

-1, --first-ver &lt;type&gt;  
Set first verification type (tabtop, onobject, ttandoo). If the object
is second verified and this option is specified without -2
(--second-ver), the second verification will be unset.

-2, --second-ver &lt;type&gt;  
Set second verification type (tabtop, onobject, ttandoo). If the object
is unverified and this option is specified without -1 (--first-ver), the
first verification will be set as the same type as the second
verification.

-4, --remove-marks  
Remove change markup on elements, but not RFUs, in the upissued object.
This is automatically applied if the issue type (-s) is not `"changed"`
or `"rinstate-changed"`.

-c, --reason &lt;reason&gt;  
Add a reason for update to the upissued objects. Multiple RFUs can be
added by specifying this option multiple times.

-d, --dry-run  
Do not actually create or modify any files, only print the name of the
file that would be created or modified.

-e, --erase  
Remove old issue file after upissuing.

-f, --overwrite  
Overwrite existing upissued CSDB objects.

-H, --highlight  
Mark the last specified reason for update (-c) as a highlight.

-h, -?, --help  
Show help/usage message.

-I, --date &lt;date&gt;  
Specify the issue date to use for the upissued object(s). Otherwise, the
current date will be used.

-i, --official  
Increase the issue number of the CSDB object. By default, the in-work
issue is increased.

-l, --list  
Treat input (stdin or arguments) as lists of CSDB objects to upissue,
rather than CSDB objects themselves.

-m, --modify  
Modify issue-related metadata on objects without incrementing the issue
or inwork numbers. The -I and -r options have the opposite effect in
this mode. The modified objects are written to stdout by default, and
the -f option can be used to change them in-place.

-N, --omit-issue  
Omit issue/inwork numbers from filename.

-q, --keep-qa  
Keep quality assurance information from old issue. Normally, when
upissuing an official CSDB object to the first in-work issue, the
quality assurance is set back to "unverified". Specify this option to
indicate the upissue will not affect the contents of the CSDB object,
and so does not require it to be re-verified.

-R, --keep-unassoc-marks  
Delete only change markup on elements associated with an RFU (by use of
the attribute `reasonForUpdateRefIds`). Change markup on other elements
is ignored.

-r, --(keep\|remove)-changes  
Keep old RFUs and change marks. Normally, when upissuing an offical CSDB
object to the first in-work issue, any reasons for update are deleted
automatically, along with any change markup attributes on elements (when
change type is "add" or "modify") or the elements themselves (when
change type is "delete"). This option prevents their deletion.

In -m mode, this option has the opposite effect, causing the current
RFUs and change marks to be removed. The two alternative long option
names, --keep-changes and --remove-changes, allow for the intended
meaning of this option to be expressed clearly in each mode.

-s, --(keep\|change)-date  
Do not change issue date. Normally, when upissuing to the next inwork or
official issue, the issue date is changed to the current date, or the
date specified with the -z option. This option will keep the date of the
previous inwork or official issue.

In -m mode, this option has the opposite effect, causing the date to be
changed. The two alternative long option names, --keep-date and
--change-date, allow for the intended meaning of this option to be
expressed clearly in each mode.

-t, --type &lt;urt&gt;  
Set the updateReasonType of the last specified reason for update (-c).

-u, --clean-rfus  
Remove RFUs which are not associated with any change markup (by use of
the attribute `reasonForUpdateRefIds`).

-v, --verbose  
Print the file name of the upissued CSDB object.

-w, --lock  
Make the old issue file read-only after upissuing. Official issues (-i)
will also be made read-only when they are created.

-z, --issue-type &lt;type&gt;  
Set the issue type of the new issue.

If this option is not specified, then the issue type of the new issue
will be set as follows:

-   if the previous issue is not an official issue (in-work 00), the
    issue type of the new issue will be the same as the previous issue.

-   if the previous issue is an official issue, the issue type of the
    new issue will default to "status".

-^, --remove-deleted  
Remove elements with change type of "delete". These elements are
automatically removed along with all change marks and RFUs when an
object is upissued from official to the next inwork issue. This option
will remove them when upissuing between inwork issues, or when making
the object official.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;file&gt;...  
Any number of CSDB objects or other files to upissue. If none are
specified, the object will be read from stdin and the upissued object
will be written to stdout.

In addition, the following options allow configuration of the XML
parser:

--dtdload  
Load the external DTD.

--huge  
Remove any internal arbitrary parser limits.

--net  
Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

--noent  
Resolve entities.

--parser-errors  
Emit errors from parser.

--parser-warnings  
Emit warnings from parser.

--xinclude  
Do XInclude processing.

--xml-catalog &lt;file&gt;  
Use an XML catalog when resolving entities. Multiple catalogs may be
loaded by specifying this option multiple times.

EXAMPLES
========

Data module with issue/inwork in filename
-----------------------------------------

    $ ls
    DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML

    $ s1kd-upissue DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
    $ ls
    DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
    DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-02_EN-CA.XML

    $ s1kd-upissue \
      -i DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-02_EN-CA.XML
    $ ls
    DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
    DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-02_EN-CA.XML
    DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML

Data module without issue/inwork in filename
--------------------------------------------

    $ ls
    DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_EN-US.XML

    $ s1kd-metadata DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_EN-CA.XML \
      -n issueInfo
    000-01
    $ s1kd-upissue -N DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_EN-CA.XML
    $ s1kd-metadata DMC-S1KDTOOLS-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_EN-CA.XML \
      -n issueInfo
    000-02

Non-XML file with issue/inwork in filename
------------------------------------------

    $ ls
    TXT-S1KDTOOLS-KHZAE-FOOBAR_000-01_EN-CA.TXT

    $ s1kd-upissue TXT-S1KDTOOLS-KHZAE-00001_000-01_EN-CA.TXT
    $ ls
    TXT-S1KDTOOLS-KHZAE-FOOBAR_000-01_EN-CA.TXT
    TXT-S1KDTOOLS-KHZAE-FOOBAR_000-02_EN-CA.TXT
