tools/s1kd-ref/README.md, before:

NAME
====

s1kd-ref - Generate XML to reference CSDB objects

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-ref [-cdfiLlqRrStuvh?] [-$ <issue>] [-s <src>] [-T <opts>]
             [-x <xpath>] [-3 <file>] [-o <dst>] [<code>|<file> ...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-ref* tool generates the XML for S1000D reference elements
using the specified code or filename. When using a filename, it can
parse the CSDB object to include the issue, language, and/or title
information in the reference.

OPTIONS
=======

-$, --issue &lt;issue&gt;  
Output XML for the specified issue of S1000D.

-c, --content  
When using the -T option, only transform textual references found in the
content section of CSDB objects.

-d, --include-date  
Include the issue date in the reference (target must be a file)

-f, --overwrite  
Overwrite source data module instead of writing to stdout.

-h, -?, --help  
Show the usage message.

-i, --include-issue  
Include the issue information in the reference (target must be a file)

-L, --list  
Treat input as a list of CSDB objects.

-l, --include-lang  
Include the language information in the reference (target must be a
file)

-o, --out &lt;dst&gt;  
Output to &lt;dst&gt; instead of stdout.

-q, --quiet  
Quiet mode. Do not print errors.

-R, --repository-id  
Generate a `<repositorySourceDmIdent>` for a data module.

-r, --add  
Add the generated reference to the source data module's `refs` table and
output the modified data module to stdout.

-S, --source-id  
Generate a `<sourceDmIdent>` (for data modules) or `<sourcePmIdent>`
(for publication modules).

-s, --source &lt;src&gt;  
Specify a source data module &lt;src&gt; to add references to when using
the -r option.

-T, --transform &lt;opts&gt;  
Transform textual references into the appropriate XML within text nodes
in the XML document(s) specified. The textual references may or may not
include the standard prefixes (e.g., "DMC-", "PMC-"). &lt;opts&gt; is a
sequence of characters from "CDEGLPSY", for comment, data module,
external publication, ICN, DML, publication module, SCORM content
package and CSN references respectively. If "-" is given, then all types
of references will be transformed.

-t, --include-title  
Include the title in the reference (target must be a file).

-u, --include-url  
Include the full URL/filename of the reference with the `xlink:href`
attribute.

-v, --verbose  
Verbose output.

-x, --xpath &lt;xpath&gt;  
When using the -T option, this specifies which nodes to transform
textual references in. By default, only the elements which can contain
each type of reference are considered.

-3, --externalpubs &lt;file&gt;  
Use a custom `.externalpubs` file.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;code&gt;\|&lt;file&gt;  
Either a code, including the prefix (DMC, PMC, etc.), or the filename of
a CSDB object.

In addition, the following options enable features of the XML parser
that are disabled as a precaution by default:

--dtdload  
Load the external DTD.

--net  
Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

--noent  
Resolve entities.

--xinclude  
Do XInclude processing.

`.externalpubs` file
--------------------

The `.externalpubs` file contains definitions of external publication
references. This can be used to generate the XML for an external
publication reference by specifying the external publication code.

Example of a `.externalpubs` file:

    <externalPubs>
    <externalPubRef>
    <externalPubRefIdent>
    <externalPubCode>ABC</externalPubCode>
    <externalPubTitle>ABC Manual</externalPubTitle>
    </externalPubRefIdent>
    </externalPubRef>
    </externalPubs>

EXAMPLES
========

Reference to data module with data module code:

    $ s1kd-ref DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D
    <dmRef>
    <dmRefIdent>
    <dmCode modelIdentCode="EX" systemDiffCode="A" systemCode="00"
    subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00" disassyCode="00"
    disassyCodeVariant="A" infoCode="040" infoCodeVariant="A"
    itemLocationCode="D"/>
    </dmRefIdent>
    </dmRef>

Reference to data module with data module code and issue/language:

    $ s1kd-ref -il DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_001-03_EN-CA
    <dmRef>
    <dmRefIdent>
    <dmCode modelIdentCode="EX" systemDiffCode="A" systemCode="00"
    subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00" disassyCode="00"
    disassyCodeVariant="A" infoCode="040" infoCodeVariant="A"
    itemLocationCode="D"/>
    <issueInfo issueNumber="001" inWork="03"/>
    <language languageIsoCode="en" countryIsoCode="CA"/>
    </dmRefIdent>
    </dmRef>

Reference to data module with all information, from a file:

    $ s1kd-ref -dilt DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_001-03_EN-CA.XML
    <dmRef>
    <dmRefIdent>
    <dmCode modelIdentCode="EX" systemDiffCode="A" systemCode="00"
    subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00" disassyCode="00"
    disassyCodeVariant="A" infoCode="040" infoCodeVariant="A"
    itemLocationCode="D"/>
    <issueInfo issueNumber="001" inWork="03"/>
    <language languageIsoCode="en" countryIsoCode="CA"/>
    </dmRefIdent>
    <dmRefAddressItems>
    <dmTitle>
    <techName>Example</techName>
    <infoName>Description</infoName>
    </dmTitle>
    <issueDate year="2018" month="06" day="25"/>
    </dmRefAddressItems>
    </dmRef>

Reference to a catalog sequence number:

    $ s1kd-ref CSN-EX-A-00-00-00-01A-004A-D
    <catalogSeqNumberRef modelIdentCode="EX" systemDiffCode="A"
    systemCode="00" subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00"
    figureNumber="01" figureNumberVariant="A" item="004" itemVariant="A"
    itemLocationCode="D"/>

Reference to a comment:

    $ s1kd-ref COM-EX-12345-2018-00001-Q
    <commentRef>
    <commentRefIdent>
    <commentCode modelIdentCode="EX" senderIdent="12345"
    yearOfDataIssue="2018" seqNumber="00001" commentType="q"/>
    </commentRefIdent>
    </commentRef>

Reference to a data management list:

    $ s1kd-ref DML-EX-12345-C-2018-00001
    <dmlRef>
    <dmlRefIdent>
    <dmlCode modelIdentCode="EX" senderIdent="12345" dmlType="c"
    yearOfDataIssue="2018" seqNumber="00001"/>
    </dmlRefIdent>
    </dmlRef>

Reference to an information control number:

    $ s1kd-ref ICN-EX-A-000000-A-00001-A-001-01
    <infoEntityRef infoEntityRefIdent="ICN-EX-A-000000-A-00001-A-001-01"/>

Reference to a publication module:

    $ s1kd-ref PMC-EX-12345-00001-00
    <pmRef>
    <pmRefIdent>
    <pmCode modelIdentCode="EX" pmIssuer="12345" pmNumber="00001"
    pmVolume="00"/>
    </pmRefIdent>
    </pmRef>

Reference to a SCORM content package:

    $ s1kd-ref SMC-EX-12345-00001-00
    <scormContentPackageRef>
    <scormContentPackageRefIdent>
    <scormContentPackageCode
    modelIdentCode="EX"
    scormContentPackageIssuer="12345"
    scormContentPackageNumber="00001"
    scormContentPackageVolume="00"/>
    </scormContentPackageRefIdent>
    </scormContentPackageRef>

Source identification for a data module:

    $ s1kd-ref -S DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML
    <sourceDmIdent>
    <dmCode modelIdentCode="EX" systemDiffCode="A" systemCode="00"
    subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00" disassyCode="00"
    disassyCodeVariant="A" infoCode="040" infoCodeVariant="A"
    itemLocationCode="D"/>
    <language languageIsoCode="en" countryIsoCode="CA"/>
    <issueInfo issueNumber="001" inWork="00"/>
    </sourceDmIdent>

Source identification for a publication module:

    $ s1kd-ref -S PMC-EX-12345-00001-00_001-00_EN-CA.XML
    <sourcePmIdent>
    <pmCode modelIdentCode="EX" pmIssuer="12345" pmNumber="00001"
    pmVolume="00"/>
    <language languageIsoCode="en" countryIsoCode="CA"/>
    <issueInfo issueNumber="001" inWork="00"/>
    </sourcePmIdent>

Source identification for a SCORM content package:

    $ s1kd-ref -S SMC-EX-12345-00001-00_001-00_EN-CA.XML
    <sourceScormContentPackageIdent>
    <scormContentPackageCode
    modelIdentCode="EX"
    scormContentPackageIssuer="12345"
    scormContentPackageNumber="00001"
    scormContentPackageVolume="00"/>
    <language languageIsoCode="en" countryIsoCode="CA"/>
    <issueInfo issueNumber="000" inWork="01"/>
    </sourceScormContentPackageIdent>

Repository source identification for a CIR data module:

    $ s1kd-ref -R DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-00GA-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML
    <repositorySourceDmIdent>
    <dmCode modelIdentCode="EX" systemDiffCode="A" systemCode="00"
    subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00" disassyCode="00"
    disassyCodeVariant="A" infoCode="00G" infoCodeVariant="A"
    itemLocationCode="D"/>
    <language languageIsoCode="en" countryIsoCode="CA"/>
    <issueInfo issueNumber="001" inWork="00"/>
    </repositorySourceDmIdent>

Reference to an external publication:

    $ s1kd-ref ABC
    <externalPubRef>
    <externalPubRefIdent>
    <externalPubCode>ABC</externalPubCode>
    </externalPubRefIdent>
    </externalPubRef>

Reference to an external publication (from the `.externalpubs` file):

    $ s1kd-ref ABC
    <externalPubRef>
    <externalPubRefIdent>
    <externalPubCode>ABC</externalPubCode>
    <externalPubTitle>ABC Manual</externalPubTitle>
    </externalPubRefIdent>
    </externalPubRef>

Commit message:

s1kd-ref: Add -p, change "-" to "all", handle ext
Added a -p (--no-prefix) option to enable transforming textual
references without the standard prefixes.

Changed the "-" argument of -T to "all" to provide a better mnemonic for
what it does.

Handle extended ref variants DME, PME and SME.

Add similar check for DMC/CSN to PMC/SMC.

tools/s1kd-ref/README.md, after:

NAME
====

s1kd-ref - Generate XML to reference CSDB objects

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-ref [-cdfiLlpqRrStuvh?] [-$ <issue>] [-s <src>] [-T <opts>]
             [-x <xpath>] [-3 <file>] [-o <dst>] [<code>|<file> ...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-ref* tool generates the XML for S1000D reference elements
using the specified code or filename. When using a filename, it can
parse the CSDB object to include the issue, language, and/or title
information in the reference.

OPTIONS
=======

-$, --issue &lt;issue&gt;  
Output XML for the specified issue of S1000D.

-c, --content  
When using the -T option, only transform textual references found in the
content section of CSDB objects.

-d, --include-date  
Include the issue date in the reference (target must be a file)

-f, --overwrite  
Overwrite source data module instead of writing to stdout.

-h, -?, --help  
Show the usage message.

-i, --include-issue  
Include the issue information in the reference (target must be a file)

-L, --list  
Treat input as a list of CSDB objects.

-l, --include-lang  
Include the language information in the reference (target must be a
file)

-o, --out &lt;dst&gt;  
Output to &lt;dst&gt; instead of stdout.

-p, --no-prefix  
When using the -T option, transform textual references that do not
include the standard prefixes (e.g., "DMC-", "PMC-").

-q, --quiet  
Quiet mode. Do not print errors.

-R, --repository-id  
Generate a `<repositorySourceDmIdent>` for a data module.

-r, --add  
Add the generated reference to the source data module's `refs` table and
output the modified data module to stdout.

-S, --source-id  
Generate a `<sourceDmIdent>` (for data modules) or `<sourcePmIdent>`
(for publication modules).

-s, --source &lt;src&gt;  
Specify a source data module &lt;src&gt; to add references to when using
the -r option.

-T, --transform &lt;opts&gt;  
Transform textual references into the appropriate XML within text nodes
in the XML document(s) specified. The textual references must include
the standard prefixes (e.g., "DMC-", "PMC-'), unless the -p option is
specified. &lt;opts&gt; is a sequence of characters from "CDEGLPSY", for
comment, data module, external publication, ICN, DML, publication
module, SCORM content package and CSN references respectively. If "-" is
given, then all types of references will be transformed.

-t, --include-title  
Include the title in the reference (target must be a file).

-u, --include-url  
Include the full URL/filename of the reference with the `xlink:href`
attribute.

-v, --verbose  
Verbose output.

-x, --xpath &lt;xpath&gt;  
When using the -T option, this specifies which nodes to transform
textual references in. By default, only the elements which can contain
each type of reference are considered.

-3, --externalpubs &lt;file&gt;  
Use a custom `.externalpubs` file.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;code&gt;\|&lt;file&gt;  
Either a code, including the prefix (DMC, PMC, etc.), or the filename of
a CSDB object.

In addition, the following options enable features of the XML parser
that are disabled as a precaution by default:

--dtdload  
Load the external DTD.

--net  
Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

--noent  
Resolve entities.

--xinclude  
Do XInclude processing.

`.externalpubs` file
--------------------

The `.externalpubs` file contains definitions of external publication
references. This can be used to generate the XML for an external
publication reference by specifying the external publication code.

Example of a `.externalpubs` file:

    <externalPubs>
    <externalPubRef>
    <externalPubRefIdent>
    <externalPubCode>ABC</externalPubCode>
    <externalPubTitle>ABC Manual</externalPubTitle>
    </externalPubRefIdent>
    </externalPubRef>
    </externalPubs>

EXAMPLES
========

Reference to data module with data module code:

    $ s1kd-ref DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D
    <dmRef>
    <dmRefIdent>
    <dmCode modelIdentCode="EX" systemDiffCode="A" systemCode="00"
    subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00" disassyCode="00"
    disassyCodeVariant="A" infoCode="040" infoCodeVariant="A"
    itemLocationCode="D"/>
    </dmRefIdent>
    </dmRef>

Reference to data module with data module code and issue/language:

    $ s1kd-ref -il DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_001-03_EN-CA
    <dmRef>
    <dmRefIdent>
    <dmCode modelIdentCode="EX" systemDiffCode="A" systemCode="00"
    subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00" disassyCode="00"
    disassyCodeVariant="A" infoCode="040" infoCodeVariant="A"
    itemLocationCode="D"/>
    <issueInfo issueNumber="001" inWork="03"/>
    <language languageIsoCode="en" countryIsoCode="CA"/>
    </dmRefIdent>
    </dmRef>

Reference to data module with all information, from a file:

    $ s1kd-ref -dilt DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_001-03_EN-CA.XML
    <dmRef>
    <dmRefIdent>
    <dmCode modelIdentCode="EX" systemDiffCode="A" systemCode="00"
    subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00" disassyCode="00"
    disassyCodeVariant="A" infoCode="040" infoCodeVariant="A"
    itemLocationCode="D"/>
    <issueInfo issueNumber="001" inWork="03"/>
    <language languageIsoCode="en" countryIsoCode="CA"/>
    </dmRefIdent>
    <dmRefAddressItems>
    <dmTitle>
    <techName>Example</techName>
    <infoName>Description</infoName>
    </dmTitle>
    <issueDate year="2018" month="06" day="25"/>
    </dmRefAddressItems>
    </dmRef>

Reference to a catalog sequence number:

    $ s1kd-ref CSN-EX-A-00-00-00-01A-004A-D
    <catalogSeqNumberRef modelIdentCode="EX" systemDiffCode="A"
    systemCode="00" subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00"
    figureNumber="01" figureNumberVariant="A" item="004" itemVariant="A"
    itemLocationCode="D"/>

Reference to a comment:

    $ s1kd-ref COM-EX-12345-2018-00001-Q
    <commentRef>
    <commentRefIdent>
    <commentCode modelIdentCode="EX" senderIdent="12345"
    yearOfDataIssue="2018" seqNumber="00001" commentType="q"/>
    </commentRefIdent>
    </commentRef>

Reference to a data management list:

    $ s1kd-ref DML-EX-12345-C-2018-00001
    <dmlRef>
    <dmlRefIdent>
    <dmlCode modelIdentCode="EX" senderIdent="12345" dmlType="c"
    yearOfDataIssue="2018" seqNumber="00001"/>
    </dmlRefIdent>
    </dmlRef>

Reference to an information control number:

    $ s1kd-ref ICN-EX-A-000000-A-00001-A-001-01
    <infoEntityRef infoEntityRefIdent="ICN-EX-A-000000-A-00001-A-001-01"/>

Reference to a publication module:

    $ s1kd-ref PMC-EX-12345-00001-00
    <pmRef>
    <pmRefIdent>
    <pmCode modelIdentCode="EX" pmIssuer="12345" pmNumber="00001"
    pmVolume="00"/>
    </pmRefIdent>
    </pmRef>

Reference to a SCORM content package:

    $ s1kd-ref SMC-EX-12345-00001-00
    <scormContentPackageRef>
    <scormContentPackageRefIdent>
    <scormContentPackageCode
    modelIdentCode="EX"
    scormContentPackageIssuer="12345"
    scormContentPackageNumber="00001"
    scormContentPackageVolume="00"/>
    </scormContentPackageRefIdent>
    </scormContentPackageRef>

Source identification for a data module:

    $ s1kd-ref -S DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML
    <sourceDmIdent>
    <dmCode modelIdentCode="EX" systemDiffCode="A" systemCode="00"
    subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00" disassyCode="00"
    disassyCodeVariant="A" infoCode="040" infoCodeVariant="A"
    itemLocationCode="D"/>
    <language languageIsoCode="en" countryIsoCode="CA"/>
    <issueInfo issueNumber="001" inWork="00"/>
    </sourceDmIdent>

Source identification for a publication module:

    $ s1kd-ref -S PMC-EX-12345-00001-00_001-00_EN-CA.XML
    <sourcePmIdent>
    <pmCode modelIdentCode="EX" pmIssuer="12345" pmNumber="00001"
    pmVolume="00"/>
    <language languageIsoCode="en" countryIsoCode="CA"/>
    <issueInfo issueNumber="001" inWork="00"/>
    </sourcePmIdent>

Source identification for a SCORM content package:

    $ s1kd-ref -S SMC-EX-12345-00001-00_001-00_EN-CA.XML
    <sourceScormContentPackageIdent>
    <scormContentPackageCode
    modelIdentCode="EX"
    scormContentPackageIssuer="12345"
    scormContentPackageNumber="00001"
    scormContentPackageVolume="00"/>
    <language languageIsoCode="en" countryIsoCode="CA"/>
    <issueInfo issueNumber="000" inWork="01"/>
    </sourceScormContentPackageIdent>

Repository source identification for a CIR data module:

    $ s1kd-ref -R DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-00GA-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML
    <repositorySourceDmIdent>
    <dmCode modelIdentCode="EX" systemDiffCode="A" systemCode="00"
    subSystemCode="0" subSubSystemCode="0" assyCode="00" disassyCode="00"
    disassyCodeVariant="A" infoCode="00G" infoCodeVariant="A"
    itemLocationCode="D"/>
    <language languageIsoCode="en" countryIsoCode="CA"/>
    <issueInfo issueNumber="001" inWork="00"/>
    </repositorySourceDmIdent>

Reference to an external publication:

    $ s1kd-ref ABC
    <externalPubRef>
    <externalPubRefIdent>
    <externalPubCode>ABC</externalPubCode>
    </externalPubRefIdent>
    </externalPubRef>

Reference to an external publication (from the `.externalpubs` file):

    $ s1kd-ref ABC
    <externalPubRef>
    <externalPubRefIdent>
    <externalPubCode>ABC</externalPubCode>
    <externalPubTitle>ABC Manual</externalPubTitle>
    </externalPubRefIdent>
    </externalPubRef>
