tools/s1kd-ls/README.md, before:

NAME
====

s1kd-ls - List CSDB objects

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-ls [-0CDIiLlMoPrwX] [<object>|<dir> ...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-ls* tool lists CSDB objects in a directory hierarchy.

OPTIONS
=======

-0  
Output a null-delimited list of CSDB object paths.

-C, -D, -L, -M, -P, -X  
List comments, data modules, data management lists, ICN metadata files, publication modules, and data dispatch notes respectively. If none are specified, -CDLMPX is assumed.

-h -?  
Show the usage message.

-I  
Show only inwork issues of objects (inwork != 00).

-i  
Show only official issues of objects (inwork = 00).

-l  
Show only the latest official/inwork issue of objects.

-o  
Show only old official/inwork issues of objects.

-r  
Recursively descend in to directories.

-w  
Show only writable object files.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;object&gt;|&lt;dir&gt; ...  
An optional list of CSDB objects to list or directories to search for CSDB objects in. If none are specified, CSDB objects in the current directory are listed by default.

EXAMPLE
=======

    $ s1kd-ls
    DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
    DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-02_EN-CA.XML
    DMC-EX-B-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
    PMC-EX-12345-00001-00_000-01_EN-CA.XML

    $ s1kd-ls -l
    DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-02_EN-CA.XML
    DMC-EX-B-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
    PMC-EX-12345-00001-00_000-01_EN-CA.XML

    $ s1kd-ls -o
    DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML

    $ s1kd-ls -D | s1kd-metadata -lt -ntechName -ninfoName -nissueDate
    Example A    Description    2018-03-20
    Example A    Description    2018-03-29
    Example B    Description    2018-03-29

Commit message:

Add -N option to s1kd-ls

tools/s1kd-ls/README.md, after:

NAME
====

s1kd-ls - List CSDB objects in a directory hierarchy

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-ls [-0CDIiLlMNoPrwX] [<object>|<dir> ...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-ls* tool searches the current directory or specified directory trees and lists the file names of CSDB objects matching certain criteria.

The files representing the CSDB objects must use either the standard S1000D file naming conventions, or the alternate naming convention supported by these tools using the -N option.

OPTIONS
=======

-0  
Output a null-delimited list of CSDB object paths.

-C, -D, -L, -M, -P, -X  
List comments, data modules, data management lists, ICN metadata files, publication modules, and data dispatch notes respectively. If none are specified, -CDLMPX is assumed.

-h -?  
Show the usage message.

-I  
Show only inwork issues of objects (inwork != 00).

-i  
Show only official issues of objects (inwork = 00).

-l  
Show only the latest official/inwork issue of objects.

-N  
Assume that the files being listed do not include the issue info in their filenames, i.e. they were created using the -N option of the s1kd-new\* tools.

-o  
Show only old official/inwork issues of objects.

-r  
Recursively descend in to directories.

-w  
Show only writable object files.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;object&gt;|&lt;dir&gt; ...  
An optional list of CSDB objects to list or directories to search for CSDB objects in. If none are specified, CSDB objects in the current directory are listed by default.

EXAMPLE
=======

    $ s1kd-ls
    DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
    DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-02_EN-CA.XML
    DMC-EX-B-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
    PMC-EX-12345-00001-00_000-01_EN-CA.XML

    $ s1kd-ls -l
    DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-02_EN-CA.XML
    DMC-EX-B-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
    PMC-EX-12345-00001-00_000-01_EN-CA.XML

    $ s1kd-ls -o
    DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML

    $ s1kd-ls -D | s1kd-metadata -lt -ntechName -ninfoName -nissueDate
    Example A    Description    2018-03-20
    Example A    Description    2018-03-29
    Example B    Description    2018-03-29
