tools/s1kd-flatten/README.md, before:

# NAME

s1kd-flatten - Flatten a publication module for publishing

# SYNOPSIS

    s1kd-flatten [-d <dir>] [-I <path>] [-cDfimNPpqRruvx] <PM> [<DM>...]

# DESCRIPTION

The *s1kd-flatten* tool combines a publication module and the data
modules it references in to a single file for use with a publishing
system.

Data modules are by default searched for in the current directory using
the data module code, language and/or issue info provided in each
reference.

# OPTIONS

  - \-c, --containers  
    Flatten referenced container data modules by copying the references
    inside the container directly in to the publication module. The
    copied references will also be flattened, unless the -m option is
    specified.

  - \-D, --remove  
    Remove unresolved references.

  - \-d, --dir \<dir\>  
    Directory to start search in. By default, the current directory is
    used.

  - \-f, --overwrite  
    Overwrite input publication module instead of writing to stdout.

  - \-h, -?, --help  
    Show help/usage message.

  - \-I, --include \<path\>  
    Add \<path\> to the list of directories that the tool will search
    when resolving references.

  - \-i, --ignore-issue  
    Always match the latest issue of an object found, regardless of the
    issue specified in the reference.

  - \-l, --list  
    Treat input (stdin or arguments) as lists of CSDB objects, rather
    than CSDB objects themselves. This option only applies to the simple
    "flat" format (-p/--simple).

  - \-m, --modify  
    Modify the references in the publication module without flattening
    them.

  - \-N, --omit-issue  
    Assume that the files representing the referenced data modules do
    not include the issue info in their filenames, i.e. they were
    created using the -N option of the s1kd-new\* tools.

  - \-P, --only-pm-refs  
    Only flatten PM references, leaving DM references alone.

  - \-p, --simple  
    Instead of the hierarchical PM-based format, use a simpler "flat"
    format.

  - \-q, --quiet  
    Quiet mode. Errors are not printed.

  - \-R, --recursively  
    Recursively flatten referenced publication modules, copying their
    content in to the "master" publication module.

  - \-r, --recursive  
    Search directories recursively.

  - \-u, --unique  
    Remove duplicate references within the PM content.

  - \-v, --verbose  
    Verbose output. Specify multiple times to increase the verbosity.

  - \-x, --use-xinclude  
    Use XInclude rather than copying each data module's contents
    directly inside the publication module. DTD entities in data modules
    will only be carried over to the final publication when using this
    option, otherwise they do not carry over when copying the data
    module.

  - \--version  
    Show version information.

  - \<DM\>...  
    When using the -p option, the filenames to include can be specified
    manually as additional arguments instead of searching for them in
    the current directory. When not using the -p option, additional
    arguments are ignored.

  - \<PM\>  
    The publication module to flatten.

In addition, the following options allow configuration of the XML
parser:

  - \--dtdload  
    Load the external DTD.

  - \--huge  
    Remove any internal arbitrary parser limits.

  - \--net  
    Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

  - \--noent  
    Resolve entities.

  - \--parser-errors  
    Emit errors from parser.

  - \--parser-warnings  
    Emit warnings from parser.

  - \--xinclude  
    Do XInclude processing.

  - \--xml-catalog \<file\>  
    Use an XML catalog when resolving entities. Multiple catalogs may be
    loaded by specifying this option multiple times.

# EXIT STATUS

  - 0  
    No errors.

  - 1  
    The publication module specified is malformed.

  - 2  
    An encoding error occurred.

# EXAMPLE

    $ s1kd-flatten -x PMC-EX-12345-00001-00_001-00_EN-CA.XML > Book.xml

Commit message:

s1kd-flatten: Add -a (--recursively-add-entries) option
Added a new -a (--recursively-add-entries) option to the s1kd-flatten
tool, which behaves similarly to the existing -R (--recursively) option,
but adds the contents of each referenced PM to a new PM entry, with a
title based on the title of the referenced PM.

tools/s1kd-flatten/README.md, after:

# NAME

s1kd-flatten - Flatten a publication module for publishing

# SYNOPSIS

    s1kd-flatten [-d <dir>] [-I <path>] [-cDfimNPpqRruvx] <PM> [<DM>...]

# DESCRIPTION

The *s1kd-flatten* tool combines a publication module and the data
modules it references in to a single file for use with a publishing
system.

Data modules are by default searched for in the current directory using
the data module code, language and/or issue info provided in each
reference.

# OPTIONS

  - \-a, --recursively-add-entries  
    Recursively flatten referenced publication modules, copying their
    content in to a new PM entry in the "master" publication module. The
    PM entry is given the title of the referenced publication module.
    The -R (--recursively) option works similarly, but does not create a
    new PM entry.

  - \-c, --containers  
    Flatten referenced container data modules by copying the references
    inside the container directly in to the publication module. The
    copied references will also be flattened, unless the -m option is
    specified.

  - \-D, --remove  
    Remove unresolved references.

  - \-d, --dir \<dir\>  
    Directory to start search in. By default, the current directory is
    used.

  - \-f, --overwrite  
    Overwrite input publication module instead of writing to stdout.

  - \-h, -?, --help  
    Show help/usage message.

  - \-I, --include \<path\>  
    Add \<path\> to the list of directories that the tool will search
    when resolving references.

  - \-i, --ignore-issue  
    Always match the latest issue of an object found, regardless of the
    issue specified in the reference.

  - \-l, --list  
    Treat input (stdin or arguments) as lists of CSDB objects, rather
    than CSDB objects themselves. This option only applies to the simple
    "flat" format (-p/--simple).

  - \-m, --modify  
    Modify the references in the publication module without flattening
    them.

  - \-N, --omit-issue  
    Assume that the files representing the referenced data modules do
    not include the issue info in their filenames, i.e. they were
    created using the -N option of the s1kd-new\* tools.

  - \-P, --only-pm-refs  
    Only flatten PM references, leaving DM references alone.

  - \-p, --simple  
    Instead of the hierarchical PM-based format, use a simpler "flat"
    format.

  - \-q, --quiet  
    Quiet mode. Errors are not printed.

  - \-R, --recursively  
    Recursively flatten referenced publication modules, copying their
    content in to the "master" publication module. This is similar to
    the -a (--recursively-add-entries) option, but the contents are
    copied directly rather than being added to a new PM entry.

  - \-r, --recursive  
    Search directories recursively.

  - \-u, --unique  
    Remove duplicate references within the PM content.

  - \-v, --verbose  
    Verbose output. Specify multiple times to increase the verbosity.

  - \-x, --use-xinclude  
    Use XInclude rather than copying each data module's contents
    directly inside the publication module. DTD entities in data modules
    will only be carried over to the final publication when using this
    option, otherwise they do not carry over when copying the data
    module.

  - \--version  
    Show version information.

  - \<DM\>...  
    When using the -p option, the filenames to include can be specified
    manually as additional arguments instead of searching for them in
    the current directory. When not using the -p option, additional
    arguments are ignored.

  - \<PM\>  
    The publication module to flatten.

In addition, the following options allow configuration of the XML
parser:

  - \--dtdload  
    Load the external DTD.

  - \--huge  
    Remove any internal arbitrary parser limits.

  - \--net  
    Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

  - \--noent  
    Resolve entities.

  - \--parser-errors  
    Emit errors from parser.

  - \--parser-warnings  
    Emit warnings from parser.

  - \--xinclude  
    Do XInclude processing.

  - \--xml-catalog \<file\>  
    Use an XML catalog when resolving entities. Multiple catalogs may be
    loaded by specifying this option multiple times.

# EXIT STATUS

  - 0  
    No errors.

  - 1  
    The publication module specified is malformed.

  - 2  
    An encoding error occurred.

# EXAMPLE

    $ s1kd-flatten -x PMC-EX-12345-00001-00_001-00_EN-CA.XML > Book.xml
