s1kd-transform/README.md, before:

NAME
====

s1kd-transform - Apply XSL transformations to data modules

SYNOPSIS
========

s1kd-transform \[-h?\] \[-s &lt;stylesheet&gt; ...\] \[-i\] \[-o &lt;file&gt;\] &lt;datamodules&gt;

DESCRIPTION
===========

Applies an XSLT stylesheet to S1000D data modules. The original data module files are overwritten, but their DTD is preserved.

OPTIONS
=======

-h -?  
Show usage message.

-s &lt;stylesheet&gt;  
An XSLT stylesheet file to apply to each data module. Multiple stylesheets can be specified by supplying this argument multiple times. The stylesheets will be applied in the order they are listed.

-i  
Includes an "identity" template in to each specified stylesheet.

-o &lt;file&gt;  
Output to &lt;file&gt; instead of overwriting the original data module file. This option only makes sense when the input is a single data module.

&lt;datamodules&gt;  
Any number of data modules to apply all specified stylesheets to. The original files are overwritten with the results of the transformations.

Identity template
-----------------

The -i option includes an "identity" template in to each stylesheet specified with the -s option. The template is equivalent to this XSL:

    <xsl:template match="@*|node()">
      <xsl:copy>
        <xsl:apply-templates select="@*|node()"/>
      </xsl:copy>
    </xsl:template>

This means that any attributes or nodes which are not matched by a more specific template in the user-specified stylesheet are copied.

Commit message:

Change behaviour of s1kd-transform tool
Similarly to s1kd-syncrefs, prefer stdin/stdout rather than overwriting.

s1kd-transform/README.md, after:

NAME
====

s1kd-transform - Apply XSL transformations to data modules

SYNOPSIS
========

s1kd-transform \[-s &lt;stylesheet&gt; ...\] \[-o &lt;file&gt;\] \[-ifh?\] \[&lt;data module&gt; ...\]

DESCRIPTION
===========

Applies an XSLT stylesheet to S1000D data modules. The DTD of any specified data modules is preserved in the resulting output.

OPTIONS
=======

-h -?  
Show usage message.

-s &lt;stylesheet&gt;  
An XSLT stylesheet file to apply to each data module. Multiple stylesheets can be specified by supplying this argument multiple times. The stylesheets will be applied in the order they are listed.

-i  
Includes an "identity" template in to each specified stylesheet.

-o &lt;file&gt;  
Output to &lt;file&gt; instead of stdout. This option only makes sense when the input is a single data module.

-f  
Overwrite the specified data module(s) instead of writing to stdout.

&lt;data module&gt; ...  
Any number of data modules to apply all specified stylesheets to.

Identity template
-----------------

The -i option includes an "identity" template in to each stylesheet specified with the -s option. The template is equivalent to this XSL:

    <xsl:template match="@*|node()">
      <xsl:copy>
        <xsl:apply-templates select="@*|node()"/>
      </xsl:copy>
    </xsl:template>

This means that any attributes or nodes which are not matched by a more specific template in the user-specified stylesheet are copied.
