tools/s1kd-sns/README.md, before:

NAME
====

s1kd-sns - Organize data modules based on an SNS

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-sns [-d <dir>] [-cmnpsh?] [<BREX> ...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-sns* tool can be used to automatically organize data modules
in a CSDB in to a directory hierarchy based on a specified SNS
structure. It may also be used to simply print an indented text version
of an SNS structure.

OPTIONS
=======

-c  
Copy files in to the SNS subfolders instead of linking them.

-d &lt;dir&gt;  
The root directory of the new SNS structure. By default, the tool will
use the name "SNS" in the current directory.

-h -?  
Show usage message.

-m  
Move files in to the SNS subfolders instead of linking them.

-n  
Use only the SNS codes when naming directories. By default, each
directory will be named in the form of "snsCode - snsTitle".

-p  
Print the SNS structure only.

-s  
Use symbolic links to organize the SNS instead of the default hard
links.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;BREX&gt;  
Read the SNS structure from the specified BREX data module. If none is
specified, the tool will read from stdin.

EXAMPLE
=======

    $ s1kd-sns DMC-S1000D-A-08-02-0100-00A-022A-D_EN-US.XML
    $ tree SNS
    SNS
    |_ 00 - Product, General
       |_ 0 - Product, General
       |_ 1 - Product, General maintenance
       |_ 2 - Product, Safety
       |
    ...
    |_ 04 - Worthiness (fit for purpose) limitations
       |_ 0 - General
       |_ 1 - Fatigue index calculations
       |_ 2 - Operating spectrums
    |_ 05 - Scheduled/unscheduled maintenance
       |_ 0 - General
       |_ 1 - Time limits
       |_ 2 - Scheduled maintenance check lists
    ...
    |_ 18 - Vibration and noise analysis and attenuation

Commit message:

Add libxml2 parser options to all tools
These options enable features of the XML parser which are disabled by
default as a precaution, such as external entity and DTD resolving.

tools/s1kd-sns/README.md, after:

NAME
====

s1kd-sns - Organize data modules based on an SNS

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-sns [-d <dir>] [-cmnpsh?] [<BREX> ...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-sns* tool can be used to automatically organize data modules
in a CSDB in to a directory hierarchy based on a specified SNS
structure. It may also be used to simply print an indented text version
of an SNS structure.

OPTIONS
=======

-c  
Copy files in to the SNS subfolders instead of linking them.

-d &lt;dir&gt;  
The root directory of the new SNS structure. By default, the tool will
use the name "SNS" in the current directory.

-h -?  
Show usage message.

-m  
Move files in to the SNS subfolders instead of linking them.

-n  
Use only the SNS codes when naming directories. By default, each
directory will be named in the form of "snsCode - snsTitle".

-p  
Print the SNS structure only.

-s  
Use symbolic links to organize the SNS instead of the default hard
links.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;BREX&gt;  
Read the SNS structure from the specified BREX data module. If none is
specified, the tool will read from stdin.

In addition, the following options enable features of the XML parser
that are disabled as a precaution by default:

--dtdload  
Load the external DTD.

--net  
Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

--noent  
Resolve entities.

EXAMPLE
=======

    $ s1kd-sns DMC-S1000D-A-08-02-0100-00A-022A-D_EN-US.XML
    $ tree SNS
    SNS
    |_ 00 - Product, General
       |_ 0 - Product, General
       |_ 1 - Product, General maintenance
       |_ 2 - Product, Safety
       |
    ...
    |_ 04 - Worthiness (fit for purpose) limitations
       |_ 0 - General
       |_ 1 - Fatigue index calculations
       |_ 2 - Operating spectrums
    |_ 05 - Scheduled/unscheduled maintenance
       |_ 0 - General
       |_ 1 - Time limits
       |_ 2 - Scheduled maintenance check lists
    ...
    |_ 18 - Vibration and noise analysis and attenuation
