# NAME

s1kd-dmrl - Create CSDB objects from a DMRL

# SYNOPSIS

    s1kd-dmrl [options] <DML>...

# DESCRIPTION

The *s1kd-dmrl* tool reads S1000D data management lists and creates CSBD
objects for the entries specified using the s1kd-new\* tools.

# OPTIONS

  - \-$, --issue \<issue\>  
    Specify which issue of S1000D to use when creating objects.

  - \-@, --out \<dir\>  
    Create new objects in \<dir\>.

  - \-%, --templates \<dir\>  
    Use XML templates in the specified directory instead of the built-in
    templates of each of the s1kd-new\* tools.

  - \-D, --dmtypes \<path\>  
    Specify the .dmtypes file name.

  - \-d, --defaults \<path\>  
    Specify the .defaults file name.

  - \-F, --fail  
    Fail on the first error generated by any of the s1kd-new\* commands.
    Normally, errors with individual DMRL entries will be reported but
    the other entries will still be processed.

  - \-f, --overwrite  
    Overwrite existing CSDB objects.

  - \-h, -?, --help  
    Show help/usage message.

  - \-m, --use-remarks  
    Use the remarks for an entry as the remarks for the new CSDB object.

  - \-N, --omit-issue  
    Omit issue/in-work numbers from the filenames of created CSDB
    objects.

  - \-q, --quiet  
    Do not report errors when any of the CSDB objects already exist.

  - \-s, --commands  
    Do not create CSDB objects, only output the s1kd-new\* commands to
    create them.

  - \-v, --verbose  
    Print the filenames of newly created CSDB objects.

  - \--version  
    Show version information.

  - \<DML\>...  
    One or more S1000D data management lists.

In addition, the following options allow configuration of the XML
parser:

  - \--dtdload  
    Load the external DTD.

  - \--huge  
    Remove any internal arbitrary parser limits.

  - \--net  
    Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

  - \--noent  
    Resolve entities.

  - \--parser-errors  
    Emit errors from parser.

  - \--parser-warnings  
    Emit warnings from parser.

  - \--xinclude  
    Do XInclude processing.

  - \--xml-catalog \<file\>  
    Use an XML catalog when resolving entities. Multiple catalogs may be
    loaded by specifying this option multiple times.

# EXAMPLE

    $ s1kd-dmrl DML-EX-12345-C-2018-00001_001-00.XML
