tools/s1kd-dmrl/README.md, before:

NAME
====

s1kd-dmrl - Create CSDB objects from a DMRL

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-dmrl [options] <DML>...

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-dmrl* tool reads S1000D data management lists and creates CSBD
objects for the entries specified using the s1kd-new\* tools.

OPTIONS
=======

-$, --issue &lt;issue&gt;  
Specify which issue of S1000D to use when creating objects.

-@, --out &lt;dir&gt;  
Create new objects in &lt;dir&gt;.

-%, --templates &lt;dir&gt;  
Use XML templates in the specified directory instead of the built-in
templates of each of the s1kd-new\* tools.

-D, --dmtypes &lt;path&gt;  
Specify the .dmtypes file name.

-d, --defaults &lt;path&gt;  
Specify the .defaults file name.

-F, --fail  
Fail on the first error generated by any of the s1kd-new\* commands.
Normally, errors with individual DMRL entries will be reported but the
other entries will still be processed.

-f, --overwrite  
Overwrite existing CSDB objects.

-h, -?, --help  
Show help/usage message.

-m, --use-remarks  
Use the remarks for an entry as the remarks for the new CSDB object.

-N, --omit-issue  
Omit issue/in-work numbers from the filenames of created CSDB objects.

-q, --quiet  
Do not report errors when any of the CSDB objects already exist.

-s, --commands  
Do not create CSDB objects, only output the s1kd-new\* commands to
create them.

-v, --verbose  
Print the filenames of newly created CSDB objects.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;DML&gt;...  
One or more S1000D data management lists.

In addition, the following options enable features of the XML parser
that are disabled as a precaution by default:

--dtdload  
Load the external DTD.

--huge  
Remove any internal arbitrary parser limits.

--net  
Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

--noent  
Resolve entities.

--parser-errors  
Emit errors from parser.

--parser-warnings  
Emit warnings from parser.

--xinclude  
Do XInclude processing.

EXAMPLE
=======

    $ s1kd-dmrl DML-EX-12345-C-2018-00001_001-00.XML

Commit message:

Add --xml-catalog parser option to all tools
Added an --xml-catalog parser option to all tools, which allows specifying
one or more XML catalogs for use when resolving external resources in
XML documents, such as schemas or entities.

tools/s1kd-dmrl/README.md, after:

NAME
====

s1kd-dmrl - Create CSDB objects from a DMRL

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-dmrl [options] <DML>...

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-dmrl* tool reads S1000D data management lists and creates CSBD
objects for the entries specified using the s1kd-new\* tools.

OPTIONS
=======

-$, --issue &lt;issue&gt;  
Specify which issue of S1000D to use when creating objects.

-@, --out &lt;dir&gt;  
Create new objects in &lt;dir&gt;.

-%, --templates &lt;dir&gt;  
Use XML templates in the specified directory instead of the built-in
templates of each of the s1kd-new\* tools.

-D, --dmtypes &lt;path&gt;  
Specify the .dmtypes file name.

-d, --defaults &lt;path&gt;  
Specify the .defaults file name.

-F, --fail  
Fail on the first error generated by any of the s1kd-new\* commands.
Normally, errors with individual DMRL entries will be reported but the
other entries will still be processed.

-f, --overwrite  
Overwrite existing CSDB objects.

-h, -?, --help  
Show help/usage message.

-m, --use-remarks  
Use the remarks for an entry as the remarks for the new CSDB object.

-N, --omit-issue  
Omit issue/in-work numbers from the filenames of created CSDB objects.

-q, --quiet  
Do not report errors when any of the CSDB objects already exist.

-s, --commands  
Do not create CSDB objects, only output the s1kd-new\* commands to
create them.

-v, --verbose  
Print the filenames of newly created CSDB objects.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;DML&gt;...  
One or more S1000D data management lists.

In addition, the following options allow configuration of the XML
parser:

--dtdload  
Load the external DTD.

--huge  
Remove any internal arbitrary parser limits.

--net  
Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

--noent  
Resolve entities.

--parser-errors  
Emit errors from parser.

--parser-warnings  
Emit warnings from parser.

--xinclude  
Do XInclude processing.

--xml-catalog &lt;file&gt;  
Use an XML catalog when resolving entities. Multiple catalogs may be
loaded by specifying this option multiple times.

EXAMPLE
=======

    $ s1kd-dmrl DML-EX-12345-C-2018-00001_001-00.XML
