tools/s1kd-acronyms/README.md, before:

NAME
====

s1kd-acronyms - Manage acronyms in S1000D data modules

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-acronyms -h?
    s1kd-acronyms [-dlptvx] [-n <#>] [-o <file>] [-T <types>]
                  [<dmodule>...]
    s1kd-acronyms [-flv] [-i|-I|-!] [-m|-M <acr>] [-o <file>] [-X <xpath>]
                  [<dmodule>...]
    s1kd-acronyms -D [-flv] [-o <file>] [<dmodule>...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-acronyms* tool is used to manage acronyms in S1000D data
modules in one of three ways:

-   Generate a list of unique acronyms used in all specified data
    modules.

-   Mark up acronyms automatically based on a specified list.

-   Remove acronym markup.

OPTIONS
=======

-D  
Remove acronym markup, flattening it to the acronym term.

-d  
Format XML output as an S1000D `<definitionList>`.

-f  
When marking up acronyms with the -m option, overwrite the input data
modules instead of writing to stdout.

-h -?  
Show help/usage message.

-i -I -!  
Markup acronyms in interactive mode. If the specified acronyms list
contains multiple definitions for a given acronym term, the tool will
prompt the user with the context in which the acronym is used and
present a list of the definitions for them to choose from.

When not in interactive mode, the first definition found will be used.

The -I option prompts for all acronyms, not just those with multiple
definitions. This can be useful if some occurrences of the acronym term
should be ignored.

The -! option will not prompt for acronyms, instead it will markup where
acronyms are found using a &lt;`chooseAcronym`&gt; element, whose child
elements are all possible acronyms matching the term. Another program
can then use this as input to actually prompt the user.

-l  
Treat input (stdin or arguments) as lists of filenames of data modules
to find or markup acronyms in, rather than data modules themselves.

-M &lt;list&gt;  
Like the -m option, but use a custom list of acronyms instead of the
default `.acronyms` file.

-m  
Instead of listing acronyms in the specified data modules, automatically
markup acronyms in the data module using the `.acronyms` file.

-n &lt;\#&gt;  
Minimum number of spaces after the term in pretty-printed text output.

-o &lt;file&gt;  
Output to &lt;file&gt; instead of stdout.

-p  
Pretty print text/XML acronym list output.

-T &lt;types&gt;  
Only search for acronyms with an attribute `acronymType` whose value is
contained within the string &lt;types&gt;.

-t  
Format XML output as an S1000D `<table>`.

-v  
Verbose output.

-X &lt;xpath&gt;  
When marking up acronyms with -m/-M, use a custom XPath expression to
specify which text nodes to search for acronyms in. By default, this is
all text nodes in any element where acronyms are allowed. This must be
the path to the text() nodes, not the elements, e.g. `//para/text()` and
not simply `//para`.

-x  
Use XML output instead of plain text.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;dmodule&gt;...  
Data modules to find acronyms in. If none are specified, input is taken
from stdin.

`.acronyms` file
----------------

This file specifies a list of acronyms for a project. By default, the
program will search for a file named `.acronyms` in the current
directory and parent directories, but any file can be specified using
the -M option.

Example of .acronyms file format:

    <acronyms>
    <acronym acronymType="at01">
    <acronymTerm>BREX</acronymTerm>
    <acronymDefinition>Business Rules Exchange</acronymDefinition>
    </acronym>
    <acronym acronymType="at01">
    <acronymTerm>SNS</acronymTerm>
    <acronymDefinition>Standard Numbering System</acronymDefinition>
    </acronym>
    </acronyms>

EXAMPLES
========

List all acronyms used in all data modules:

    $ s1kd-acronyms DMC-*.XML

Markup predefined acronyms in a data module:

    $ s1kd-acronyms -mf DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_EN-CA.XML

Unmarkup acronyms in a data module:

    $ s1kd-acronyms -Df DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_EN-CA.XML

Commit message:

Add libxml2 parser options to all tools
These options enable features of the XML parser which are disabled by
default as a precaution, such as external entity and DTD resolving.

tools/s1kd-acronyms/README.md, after:

NAME
====

s1kd-acronyms - Manage acronyms in S1000D data modules

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-acronyms -h?
    s1kd-acronyms [-dlptvx] [-n <#>] [-o <file>] [-T <types>]
                  [<dmodule>...]
    s1kd-acronyms [-flv] [-i|-I|-!] [-m|-M <acr>] [-o <file>] [-X <xpath>]
                  [<dmodule>...]
    s1kd-acronyms -D [-flv] [-o <file>] [<dmodule>...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-acronyms* tool is used to manage acronyms in S1000D data
modules in one of three ways:

-   Generate a list of unique acronyms used in all specified data
    modules.

-   Mark up acronyms automatically based on a specified list.

-   Remove acronym markup.

OPTIONS
=======

-D  
Remove acronym markup, flattening it to the acronym term.

-d  
Format XML output as an S1000D `<definitionList>`.

-f  
When marking up acronyms with the -m option, overwrite the input data
modules instead of writing to stdout.

-h -?  
Show help/usage message.

-i -I -!  
Markup acronyms in interactive mode. If the specified acronyms list
contains multiple definitions for a given acronym term, the tool will
prompt the user with the context in which the acronym is used and
present a list of the definitions for them to choose from.

When not in interactive mode, the first definition found will be used.

The -I option prompts for all acronyms, not just those with multiple
definitions. This can be useful if some occurrences of the acronym term
should be ignored.

The -! option will not prompt for acronyms, instead it will markup where
acronyms are found using a &lt;`chooseAcronym`&gt; element, whose child
elements are all possible acronyms matching the term. Another program
can then use this as input to actually prompt the user.

-l  
Treat input (stdin or arguments) as lists of filenames of data modules
to find or markup acronyms in, rather than data modules themselves.

-M &lt;list&gt;  
Like the -m option, but use a custom list of acronyms instead of the
default `.acronyms` file.

-m  
Instead of listing acronyms in the specified data modules, automatically
markup acronyms in the data module using the `.acronyms` file.

-n &lt;\#&gt;  
Minimum number of spaces after the term in pretty-printed text output.

-o &lt;file&gt;  
Output to &lt;file&gt; instead of stdout.

-p  
Pretty print text/XML acronym list output.

-T &lt;types&gt;  
Only search for acronyms with an attribute `acronymType` whose value is
contained within the string &lt;types&gt;.

-t  
Format XML output as an S1000D `<table>`.

-v  
Verbose output.

-X &lt;xpath&gt;  
When marking up acronyms with -m/-M, use a custom XPath expression to
specify which text nodes to search for acronyms in. By default, this is
all text nodes in any element where acronyms are allowed. This must be
the path to the text() nodes, not the elements, e.g. `//para/text()` and
not simply `//para`.

-x  
Use XML output instead of plain text.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;dmodule&gt;...  
Data modules to find acronyms in. If none are specified, input is taken
from stdin.

In addition, the following options enable features of the XML parser
that are disabled as a precaution by default:

--dtdload  
Load the external DTD.

--net  
Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

--noent  
Resolve entities.

`.acronyms` file
----------------

This file specifies a list of acronyms for a project. By default, the
program will search for a file named `.acronyms` in the current
directory and parent directories, but any file can be specified using
the -M option.

Example of .acronyms file format:

    <acronyms>
    <acronym acronymType="at01">
    <acronymTerm>BREX</acronymTerm>
    <acronymDefinition>Business Rules Exchange</acronymDefinition>
    </acronym>
    <acronym acronymType="at01">
    <acronymTerm>SNS</acronymTerm>
    <acronymDefinition>Standard Numbering System</acronymDefinition>
    </acronym>
    </acronyms>

EXAMPLES
========

List all acronyms used in all data modules:

    $ s1kd-acronyms DMC-*.XML

Markup predefined acronyms in a data module:

    $ s1kd-acronyms -mf DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_EN-CA.XML

Unmarkup acronyms in a data module:

    $ s1kd-acronyms -Df DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_EN-CA.XML
