tools/s1kd-refs/README.md, before:

NAME
====

s1kd-refs - Manage references between CSDB objects

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-refs [-aBCcDEFfGHIiKLlmNnoPqRrSsTUuvwXxYZ^h?] [-b <SNS>]
              [-d <dir>] [-e <cmd>] [-J <ns=URL>] [-j <xpath>]
              [-k <pattern>] [-t <fmt>] [-3 <file>] [<object>...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-refs* tool lists external references in CSDB objects,
optionally matching them to a filename in the CSDB directory hierarchy.

This allows you to:

-   obtain a list of dependencies for CSDB objects, such as ICNs, to
    ensure they are delivered together

-   check for references to objects which do not exist in the current
    CSDB

-   update reference metadata, such as titles, from the matched objects

OPTIONS
=======

-a, --all  
List all references, both matched and unmatched.

-B, -C, -D, -E, -G, -H, -K, -L, -P, -S, -T, -Y, -Z  
List references to IPDs, comments, data modules, external publications,
ICNs, hotspots, CSNs, data management lists, publication modules, SCORM
content packages, referred fragments, repository source DMs and source
objects respectively. If none are specified, -BCDEGHKLPSTYZ is assumed.

The following long options can also be used for each: --ipd, --com,
--dm, --epr, --icn, --hotspot, --csn, --dml, --pm, --smc, --fragment,
--repository, --source.

-b, --ipd-sns &lt;SNS&gt;  
Specify the SNS for non-chapterized IPD data modules, in the form of
SYSTEM-SUBSYSTEM-ASSY (for example, "ZD-00-35"). This code is used to
resolve non-chapterized CSN references.

If "-" is given for &lt;SNS&gt;, then the SNS will be derived from
current data module.

-c, --content  
List references in the `content` section of a CSDB object only.

-d, --dir &lt;dir&gt;  
Directory to search for matches to references in. By default, the
current directory is used.

-e, --exec &lt;cmd&gt;  
Execute a command for each referenced CSDB object matched. The string
"{}" is replaced by the current CSDB object file name everywhere it
occurs in the arguments to the command.

-F, --overwrite  
When using the -U or -X options, overwrite the input objects that have
been updated or tagged.

-f, --filename  
Include the filename of the source object where each reference was found
in the output.

-h, -?, --help  
Show help/usage message.

-I, --update-issue  
Update the issue number, issue date, language, and title of references
to that of the latest matched object. This option implies the -U and -i
options.

-i, --ignore-issue  
Ignore issue info when matching. This will always match the latest issue
of an object found, regardless of the issue specified in the reference.

-J &lt;ns=URL&gt;  
Registers an XML namespace prefix, which can then be used in the hotspot
XPath expression (-j). Multiple namespaces can be registered by
specifying this option multiple times.

-j &lt;xpath&gt;  
Specify a custom XPath expression to use when matching hotspots (-H) in
XML-based ICN formats.

-k, --ipd-dcv &lt;pattern&gt;  
Specify a pattern used to determine the disassembly code variant for IPD
data modules when resolving CSN references.

Within the pattern, the following characters have special meaning:

-   % - The figure number variant code.

-   ? - A wildcard that matches any single character.

The default pattern is "%", which means the disassembly code variant is
exactly the same as the figure number variant. Projects that use a 2- or
3-character disassembly code variant must specify a pattern of the
appropriate length in order for their IPD DMs to be matched (for
example, "%?" or "%??").

-l, --list  
Treat input (stdin or arguments) as lists of filenames of CSDB objects
to list references in, rather than CSDB objects themselves.

-m, --strict-match  
Be more strict when matching codes of CSDB objects to filenames. By
default, the name of a file (minus the extension) only needs to start
with the code to be matched. When this option is specified, the name
must match the code exactly.

For example, the code "ABC" will normally match either of the files
"ABC.PDF" or "ABC\_1.PDF", but when strict matching is enabled, it will
only match the former.

-N, --omit-issue  
Assume filenames of referenced CSDB objects omit the issue info, i.e.
they were created with the -N option to the s1kd-new\* tools.

-n, --lineno  
Include the filename of the source object where each reference was
found, and display the line number where the reference occurs in the
source file after its filename.

-o, --output-valid  
Output valid CSDB objects to stdout.

-q, --quiet  
Quiet mode. Errors are not printed.

-R, --recursively  
List references in matched objects recursively.

-r, --recursive  
Search for matches to references in directories recursively.

-s, --include-src  
Include the source object as a reference. This is helpful when the
output of this tool is used to apply some operation to a source object
and all its dependencies together.

-t, --format &lt;fmt&gt;  
Specify a custom format for printed references. &lt;fmt&gt; is a format
string, where the following variables can be given:

-   %file% - The filename of the referenced object (nothing is printed
    if no file is matched).

-   %line% - The line number where the reference occurs in the source.

-   %ref% - The reference. May be a code (if no file is matched), a file
    name (for objects where a file is matched) or a file name + fragment
    name.

-   %src% - The source of the reference.

-   %xpath% - The XPath denoting where the reference occurs in the
    source.

For example, `-t '%src% (%line%): %ref%'` is equivalent to the -n
option.

-U, --update  
Update the title of matched references from the corresponding object.

-u, --unmatched  
Show only unmatched reference errors, or unmatched codes if combined
with the -a option.

-v, --verbose  
Verbose output.

-w, --where-used  
Instead of listing references contained within specified objects, list
places within other objects where the specified objects are referenced.

In this case, &lt;object&gt; may also be a code (with the appropriate
prefix) instead of an actual file. For example:
`s1kd-refs -w DMC-TEST-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D`

-X, --tag-unmatched  
Tag unmatched references with the processing instruction
`<?unmatched?>`.

-x, --xml  
Output a detailed XML report instead of plain text messages.

-3, --externalpubs &lt;file&gt;  
Use a custom `.externalpubs` file.

-^, --remove-deleted  
List references with elements that have a change type of "delete"
removed.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;object&gt;...  
CSDB object(s) to list references in. If none are specified, the tool
will read from stdin.

In addition, the following options enable features of the XML parser
that are disabled as a precaution by default:

--dtdload  
Load the external DTD.

--huge  
Remove any internal arbitrary parser limits.

--net  
Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

--noent  
Resolve entities.

--parser-errors  
Emit errors from parser.

--parser-warnings  
Emit warnings from parser.

--xinclude  
Do XInclude processing.

`.externalpubs` file
--------------------

The `.externalpubs` file contains definitions of external publication
references. This can be used to update external publication references
in CSDB objects with -U.

By default, the tool will search the current directory and parent
directories for a file named .externalpubs, but any file can be
specified by using the -e option.

Example of a `.externalpubs` file:

    <externalPubs>
    <externalPubRef>
    <externalPubRefIdent>
    <externalPubCode>ABC</externalPubCode>
    <externalPubTitle>ABC Manual</externalPubTitle>
    </externalPubRefIdent>
    </externalPubRef>
    </externalPubs>

External publication references will be updated whether they are matched
to a file or not.

Hotspot matching (-H)
---------------------

Hotspots can be matched in XML-based ICN formats, such as SVG or X3D. By
default, matching is based on the APS ID of the hotspot and the
following attributes:

SVG  
`@id`

X3D  
`@DEF`

If hotspots are identified in a different way in a project's ICNs, a
custom XPath expression can be specified with the -j option. In this
XPath expression, the variable `$id` represents the hotspot APS ID:

    $ s1kd-refs -H -j "//*[@attr = $id]" <DM>

EXIT STATUS
===========

0  
No errors, all references were matched.

1  
Some references were unmatched.

2  
The number of objects found in a recursive check (-R) exceeded the
available memory.

3  
stdin did not contain valid XML and not in list mode (-l).

4  
The non-chapterized SNS specified (-b) is not valid.

EXAMPLES
========

General
-------

    $ s1kd-refs DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
      DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-022A-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML
      DMC-EX-A-01-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
      ICN-12345-00001-001-01.JPG

CSN references
--------------

These examples are based on the following CSN reference:

    <catalogSeqNumberRef figureNumber="01" item="004"/>

in the following data module:

    DM=DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00AA-100A-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML

Because the CSN reference is not chapterized, it cannot be matched to an
IPD DM without more information:

    $ s1kd-refs -K $DM
    Unmatched reference: Fig 01 Item 004

The SNS for non-chapterized IPDs can be specified with -b. In this case,
the project uses the SNS "ZD-00-35" for their IPDs:

    $ s1kd-refs -K -b ZD-00-35 $DM
    Unmatched reference: DMC-EX-A-ZD-00-35-010-941A-D Item 004

This project uses a 2-character disassembly code variant, so the figure
number variant is not sufficient to resolve the DMC of the referenced
IPD data module. The -k option can be used in this case to specify the
pattern for the disassembly code variant of IPDs. Since the second
character of the disassembly code variant of all IPD DMs in this project
is A, the pattern "%A" can be used:

    $ s1kd-refs -K -b ZD-00-35 -k %A $DM
    DMC-EX-A-ZD-00-35-010A-941A-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML Item 004

Commit message:

s1kd-refs: Add debug level of verbosity

tools/s1kd-refs/README.md, after:

NAME
====

s1kd-refs - Manage references between CSDB objects

SYNOPSIS
========

    s1kd-refs [-aBCcDEFfGHIiKLlmNnoPqRrSsTUuvwXxYZ^h?] [-b <SNS>]
              [-d <dir>] [-e <cmd>] [-J <ns=URL>] [-j <xpath>]
              [-k <pattern>] [-t <fmt>] [-3 <file>] [<object>...]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The *s1kd-refs* tool lists external references in CSDB objects,
optionally matching them to a filename in the CSDB directory hierarchy.

This allows you to:

-   obtain a list of dependencies for CSDB objects, such as ICNs, to
    ensure they are delivered together

-   check for references to objects which do not exist in the current
    CSDB

-   update reference metadata, such as titles, from the matched objects

OPTIONS
=======

-a, --all  
List all references, both matched and unmatched.

-B, -C, -D, -E, -G, -H, -K, -L, -P, -S, -T, -Y, -Z  
List references to IPDs, comments, data modules, external publications,
ICNs, hotspots, CSNs, data management lists, publication modules, SCORM
content packages, referred fragments, repository source DMs and source
objects respectively. If none are specified, -BCDEGHKLPSTYZ is assumed.

The following long options can also be used for each: --ipd, --com,
--dm, --epr, --icn, --hotspot, --csn, --dml, --pm, --smc, --fragment,
--repository, --source.

-b, --ipd-sns &lt;SNS&gt;  
Specify the SNS for non-chapterized IPD data modules, in the form of
SYSTEM-SUBSYSTEM-ASSY (for example, "ZD-00-35"). This code is used to
resolve non-chapterized CSN references.

If "-" is given for &lt;SNS&gt;, then the SNS will be derived from
current data module.

-c, --content  
List references in the `content` section of a CSDB object only.

-d, --dir &lt;dir&gt;  
Directory to search for matches to references in. By default, the
current directory is used.

-e, --exec &lt;cmd&gt;  
Execute a command for each referenced CSDB object matched. The string
"{}" is replaced by the current CSDB object file name everywhere it
occurs in the arguments to the command.

-F, --overwrite  
When using the -U or -X options, overwrite the input objects that have
been updated or tagged.

-f, --filename  
Include the filename of the source object where each reference was found
in the output.

-h, -?, --help  
Show help/usage message.

-I, --update-issue  
Update the issue number, issue date, language, and title of references
to that of the latest matched object. This option implies the -U and -i
options.

-i, --ignore-issue  
Ignore issue info when matching. This will always match the latest issue
of an object found, regardless of the issue specified in the reference.

-J &lt;ns=URL&gt;  
Registers an XML namespace prefix, which can then be used in the hotspot
XPath expression (-j). Multiple namespaces can be registered by
specifying this option multiple times.

-j &lt;xpath&gt;  
Specify a custom XPath expression to use when matching hotspots (-H) in
XML-based ICN formats.

-k, --ipd-dcv &lt;pattern&gt;  
Specify a pattern used to determine the disassembly code variant for IPD
data modules when resolving CSN references.

Within the pattern, the following characters have special meaning:

-   % - The figure number variant code.

-   ? - A wildcard that matches any single character.

The default pattern is "%", which means the disassembly code variant is
exactly the same as the figure number variant. Projects that use a 2- or
3-character disassembly code variant must specify a pattern of the
appropriate length in order for their IPD DMs to be matched (for
example, "%?" or "%??").

-l, --list  
Treat input (stdin or arguments) as lists of filenames of CSDB objects
to list references in, rather than CSDB objects themselves.

-m, --strict-match  
Be more strict when matching codes of CSDB objects to filenames. By
default, the name of a file (minus the extension) only needs to start
with the code to be matched. When this option is specified, the name
must match the code exactly.

For example, the code "ABC" will normally match either of the files
"ABC.PDF" or "ABC\_1.PDF", but when strict matching is enabled, it will
only match the former.

-N, --omit-issue  
Assume filenames of referenced CSDB objects omit the issue info, i.e.
they were created with the -N option to the s1kd-new\* tools.

-n, --lineno  
Include the filename of the source object where each reference was
found, and display the line number where the reference occurs in the
source file after its filename.

-o, --output-valid  
Output valid CSDB objects to stdout.

-q, --quiet  
Quiet mode. Errors are not printed.

-R, --recursively  
List references in matched objects recursively.

-r, --recursive  
Search for matches to references in directories recursively.

-s, --include-src  
Include the source object as a reference. This is helpful when the
output of this tool is used to apply some operation to a source object
and all its dependencies together.

-t, --format &lt;fmt&gt;  
Specify a custom format for printed references. &lt;fmt&gt; is a format
string, where the following variables can be given:

-   %file% - The filename of the referenced object (nothing is printed
    if no file is matched).

-   %line% - The line number where the reference occurs in the source.

-   %ref% - The reference. May be a code (if no file is matched), a file
    name (for objects where a file is matched) or a file name + fragment
    name.

-   %src% - The source of the reference.

-   %xpath% - The XPath denoting where the reference occurs in the
    source.

For example, `-t '%src% (%line%): %ref%'` is equivalent to the -n
option.

-U, --update  
Update the title of matched references from the corresponding object.

-u, --unmatched  
Show only unmatched reference errors, or unmatched codes if combined
with the -a option.

-v, --verbose  
Verbose output. Specify multiple times to increase the verbosity.

-w, --where-used  
Instead of listing references contained within specified objects, list
places within other objects where the specified objects are referenced.

In this case, &lt;object&gt; may also be a code (with the appropriate
prefix) instead of an actual file. For example:
`s1kd-refs -w DMC-TEST-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D`

-X, --tag-unmatched  
Tag unmatched references with the processing instruction
`<?unmatched?>`.

-x, --xml  
Output a detailed XML report instead of plain text messages.

-3, --externalpubs &lt;file&gt;  
Use a custom `.externalpubs` file.

-^, --remove-deleted  
List references with elements that have a change type of "delete"
removed.

--version  
Show version information.

&lt;object&gt;...  
CSDB object(s) to list references in. If none are specified, the tool
will read from stdin.

In addition, the following options enable features of the XML parser
that are disabled as a precaution by default:

--dtdload  
Load the external DTD.

--huge  
Remove any internal arbitrary parser limits.

--net  
Allow network access to load external DTD and entities.

--noent  
Resolve entities.

--parser-errors  
Emit errors from parser.

--parser-warnings  
Emit warnings from parser.

--xinclude  
Do XInclude processing.

`.externalpubs` file
--------------------

The `.externalpubs` file contains definitions of external publication
references. This can be used to update external publication references
in CSDB objects with -U.

By default, the tool will search the current directory and parent
directories for a file named .externalpubs, but any file can be
specified by using the -e option.

Example of a `.externalpubs` file:

    <externalPubs>
    <externalPubRef>
    <externalPubRefIdent>
    <externalPubCode>ABC</externalPubCode>
    <externalPubTitle>ABC Manual</externalPubTitle>
    </externalPubRefIdent>
    </externalPubRef>
    </externalPubs>

External publication references will be updated whether they are matched
to a file or not.

Hotspot matching (-H)
---------------------

Hotspots can be matched in XML-based ICN formats, such as SVG or X3D. By
default, matching is based on the APS ID of the hotspot and the
following attributes:

SVG  
`@id`

X3D  
`@DEF`

If hotspots are identified in a different way in a project's ICNs, a
custom XPath expression can be specified with the -j option. In this
XPath expression, the variable `$id` represents the hotspot APS ID:

    $ s1kd-refs -H -j "//*[@attr = $id]" <DM>

EXIT STATUS
===========

0  
No errors, all references were matched.

1  
Some references were unmatched.

2  
The number of objects found in a recursive check (-R) exceeded the
available memory.

3  
stdin did not contain valid XML and not in list mode (-l).

4  
The non-chapterized SNS specified (-b) is not valid.

EXAMPLES
========

General
-------

    $ s1kd-refs DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
      DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00A-022A-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML
      DMC-EX-A-01-00-00-00A-040A-D_000-01_EN-CA.XML
      ICN-12345-00001-001-01.JPG

CSN references
--------------

These examples are based on the following CSN reference:

    <catalogSeqNumberRef figureNumber="01" item="004"/>

in the following data module:

    DM=DMC-EX-A-00-00-00-00AA-100A-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML

Because the CSN reference is not chapterized, it cannot be matched to an
IPD DM without more information:

    $ s1kd-refs -K $DM
    Unmatched reference: Fig 01 Item 004

The SNS for non-chapterized IPDs can be specified with -b. In this case,
the project uses the SNS "ZD-00-35" for their IPDs:

    $ s1kd-refs -K -b ZD-00-35 $DM
    Unmatched reference: DMC-EX-A-ZD-00-35-010-941A-D Item 004

This project uses a 2-character disassembly code variant, so the figure
number variant is not sufficient to resolve the DMC of the referenced
IPD data module. The -k option can be used in this case to specify the
pattern for the disassembly code variant of IPDs. Since the second
character of the disassembly code variant of all IPD DMs in this project
is A, the pattern "%A" can be used:

    $ s1kd-refs -K -b ZD-00-35 -k %A $DM
    DMC-EX-A-ZD-00-35-010A-941A-D_001-00_EN-CA.XML Item 004
